Connect the pipe to the female end of the T .
Why have you purchased more material than necessary ?
Condition & fastenings of switch actuators
DRIVE CHAIN
Torque Link Nut
Pivot Shaft Nuts
Brake Lever Mounting Bolts
Brake Pedal Bolts
Muffler Mounting Bolts
Front Fender Mounting Bolts
Kick Pedal Bolts
Torque Table
DRIVE CHAIN SLIDER
An over-tightened nut or bolt may become damaged , broken , or fall out .
Oil Filter Cap Bolts
Cylinder Head Nuts
Engine Mounting Bolts or Nuts
Front Fork Clamp Bolts :
Upper
BRAKE SHOE WEAR
Lower
Side Stand Mounting Bolt or Nut
Brake Pedal Mounting Bolt
Gasoline , brake fluid , and coolant will damage the finish of painted and plastic surfaces :
wash them off immediately .
After riding in an area where the roads are salted or near the ocean , immediately wash your motorcycle with cold water .
Avoid surfaces with " satin " or " flat " finishes .
BRAKE SYSTEM
Plastic parts may deteriorate and brake if they come in contact with chemical substances or household cleaning products such as gasoline , brake fluid , window cleaners , thread-locking agents , or other harsh chemicals .
if your motorcycle has leather accessories special care must be taken .
Vinyl parts should be washed with the rest of the motorcycle and then treated with a vinyl treatment .
Lubricate the areas shown in the illustrations of this section with either motor oil or regular grease , in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart and whenever the vehicle has been operated under wet or rainy conditions , especially after using a high-pressure spray washer .
Rear Brake Rod Joints
Use an aerosol cable lubricant with a pressure lubricator on all cables :
Throttle Inner Cable
Upper end of throttle cable .
SKID PLATES
Lubrication is also necessary after riding through rain or on wet tracks , or any time that the chain appears dry .
If not available at the below guide list , the trouble should be done only by a competent mechanic following the instructions in the Service Manual .
Starting failure or difficulties :
Transmission not in neutral Engine stop switch set to OFF
Spark plug faulty
Spark plug cap poorly connected or shorted
Fuel hose clogged
Starting technique faulty
Poor low-Speed performance :
CLUTCH SYSTEM
Spark plug gap excessive
Idle adjusting screw improperly adjusted
Poor or no high-speed performance :
Misfiring
Spark plug worn
Fuel quality poor
Brakes dragging
Engine oil quantity excessive
Engine overheating :
SUSPENSION
Clutch not operating smoothly :
Friction plates worn
Clutch springs weak
Clutch doesn ' t disengage properly
Poor handling or stability
Steering stem lubrication insufficient
Handlebar vibrates or shakes
Swingarm bent
Front fork bent
Wheel alignment incorrect
SPARK ARRESTER
Pivot shaft warped
Shock absorption too hard
Shock absorption too soft
Front fork spring worn
Suspension leaks oil
Brakes Don ' t Grip :
Brake maladjusted
Lining or drum worn Brake overheated
Water in brakes
NUTS , BOLTS , FASTENERS
Brake cam worn
Oil in drum
When the motorcycle is to be stored for any length of time , it should be prepared for storage as follows :
Run the engine for about five minutes to warm the oil , shut it off and drain the engine oil .
Install the engine oil drain plug and fill in fresh engine oil .
Empty the fuel tank and empty the carburetor float bowl .
( The fuel will deteriorate if left for a long time ) .
Place a plastic bag over the muffler and secure with a rubber band to prevent moisture from entering .
To put the motorcycle back into use after storage .
WHEELS / TYRES
Check all the points listed in the Daily Pre-ride Checks section .
Perform the General Lubrication Procedure
Consult your authorized dealer or local environmental waste agency for their proper disposal procedures
Regulator / Rectifier
Frame Earth
Gear Position Switch
Pickup Coil
Double Stops .
TIE-ROD AND JOINT BOOTS
Iginiter
Brown
A . Engine Guard
Stop the engine , and place an oil pan beneath the engine .
Remove the engine oil drain plug and position the vehicle so that it is perpendicular to the ground to allow all the oil to drain out .
If the oil filter is to be changed , remove the engine guard and oil filter cover bolts and take off the cover with O-ring and spring .
Part No . ( 92180 )
MARK
THICKNESS ( mm )
STEERING SHAFT HOLDER BEARINGS
PRESENT SHIM
Example
SPECIFIED CLEARANCE / NO CHANGE REQUIRED
INSTALL THE SHIM OF THIS THICKNESS ( mm )
IGNITION
BATTERY
PARK
Turn the ignition SW ON .
Repair or change the meter or wiring
STEERING SYSTEM
Does the light ( LED ) goes on ?
No ( Flashes once then goes off or unlit )
Check the light ( LED ) and the wiring .
Yes ( stays on )
Good
Does the light ( LED ) go off after 1 ~ 2 seconds ?
Yes ( goes off )
DFI and ignition systems are considered to be normal .
No ( stays on )
DFI and ignition systems are abnormal .
Run the engine with idling .
Turn the ignition SW OFF .
End of inspection ( Go to self-diagnosis . )
DFI and ignition systems are normal .
No
Ask the rider if the problem occurs again .
Yes ( occurs )
replace the fault-teller .
Cylinder Head Jacket
SE , SF or SG
Thermostat Housing
Cylinder Jacket
Reserve Tank Overflow Hose
Water Pump
Reserve Tank Hose
Radiator Fan
Hot Coolant
Cold Coolant
MANIFOLD
Non-Catalyst
P / No . 39178-0058
Mark : KHI K 492
Honeycomb Type Catalyst with Oxygen Sensor
P / No . 18091-0284
Honeycomb Type Catalyst without Oxygen Sensors
P / No . 18091-0270
WVTA ( FULL H )
GB WVTA ( FULL H )
Malaysia
suggested oil
TAIL1
TAIL2
TAIL3
Right Switch Housing
Front Brake Light Switch
Fan Motor
Meter Unit
Neutral Indicator Light ( LED )
Turn Signal Indicator Light ( LED )
High Beam Indicator Light ( LED )
Oil Pressure Warning Indicator Light ( LED )
FI Indicator Light ( LED )
Odometer / Trip Meter / Clock
Water Temperature Gauge
Fuel Warning
Tachometer
Ilumination Light ( LED )
LED : Light Emitting Diode
Frame Ground
Water-proof Joint A
Motor oils intended for Service SE , SF or SG will show this designation on the container .
Water-proof Joint B
Front Right Turn Signal Light 12V21W
Right City Light 12V5W
Headlight ( HI ) 12V55W
Headlight ( LO ) 12V55W
Turn Signal Relay
Left Switch Housing
Horn Button
Hazard Button
Dimmer Switch
Passing Button
Oxygen Sensor Heater Fuse 10 A
Fan Fuse 15 A
FT Fuse 15 A
Turn Signal Relay Fuse 10 A
LEFT SWITCH HOUSING CONNECTIONS
Push
OFF ( Push )
Functions and operation of pneumatic cylinder
Released
Pulled in
Alternator
Water-proof Joint C
Air Switching Valve
Speed Sensor
Sub-throttle Valve Actuator
Sub-throttle Sensor
Main Throttle Sensor
Inlet Air Pressure Sensor
Water-proof Joint D
Vehicle-down Sensor
Fuel Injectors
Water-proof Joint E
Water Temperature Sensor
Inlet Air Temperature Sensor
Oil Pressure Switch
Oxygen Sensor
Electronic Control Unit ( FT )
Joint Connector
License Plate Light 12V5W
Rear Right Turn Signal Light 12V21W
Tail / Brake Light ( LED ) 12V21 / 5W
Rear Left Turn Signal Light 12V21W
Horn 12V2 . 5A
Relay Box
Starter Motor
Main Fuse 30A
Before starting the engine to check the engine oil level
Starter Relay
Side-stand Switch
Fuel Reserve Switch
Fuel Pump
Self-diagnosis Terminal
Headlight Fuse 10 A
Tail Light Fuse 10 A
Taillight Fuse 10A
Ignition Fuse 10 A
Horn Fuse 10A
Fan Relay
Headlight Relay
FT Main Relay
Fuel Pump Relay
Starter Circuit Relay
IGNITION SWITCH CONNECTION
Ignition
Tail1
Tail2
Tail3
Adjust the freeplay of the front brake lever .
OFF , LOCK
RIGHT SWITCH HOUSING CONNECTIONS
Brake Lever
Pulled In
RUN
Gray
Light Blue
Pink
Purple
Push the brake arm ( ) , then check the brake arm freeplay .
Rear Brake Light Switch Connections
When brake pedal is pushed down
When brake pedal is released
Sidestand Switch Connections
When sidestand is down
When sidestand is up
Neutral Switch Connections
Ground
When transmission is in neutral
When transmission is not in neutral
Oil Pressure Switch Connections *
When engine is stopped
When engine is running
MotorcycleService Manual
No parts of this publication may be reproduced , stored in a retrieval system , or transmitted in any form or by any means , electronic mechanical photocopying , recording or otherwise , without the prior written permission of Quality Division / Consumer Products & Machinery Company / Kawasaki Heavy Industries , Ltd . , Japan .
No liability can be accepted for any inaccuracies or omissions in this publication , although every possible care has been taken to make it as complete and accurate as possible .
Adjust the freeplay of the rear brake pedal .
The right is reserved to make changes at any time without prior notice and without incurring an obligation to make such changes to products manufactured previously .
See your Motorcycle dealer for the latest information on product improvements incorporated after this publication .
All information contained in this publication is based on the latest product information available at the time of publication .
Illustrations and photographs in this publication are intended for reference use only and may not depict actual model component parts .
First Edition ( 1 ) :
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ampere ( s )
Push the brake arm ( ) , then check the clearance between the brake arm and the brake arm pin .
pound ( s )
after bottom dead center
meter ( s )
AC
alternating current
minute ( s )
Hose and pipe network for leaks
after top dead center
before bottom dead center
BDC
bottom dead center
Measure the distance the rear brake pedal ( ) moves before the brake starts to take hold .
horsepower
before top dead center
psi
pound ( s ) per square inch
degree ( s ) Celsius
revolution
DC
direct current
Freeplay ( measurement at the tip of the end of the brake pedal ) should be :
revolution ( s ) per minute
farad ( s )
TDC
top dead center
degree ( s ) Fahrenheit
TIR
total indicator reading
ft
foot , feet
volt ( s )
gram ( s )
watt ( s )
hour ( s )
ohm ( s )
liter ( s )
Read OWNER ' S MANUAL before operating .
This manual is designed primarily for use by trained mechanics in a properly equipped shop .
However , it contains enough detail and basic information to make it useful to the owner who desires to perform his own basic maintenance and repair work .
A basic knowledge of mechanics , the proper use of tools , and workshop procedures must be understood in order to carry out maintenance and repair satisfactorily .
Whenever the owner has insufficient experience or doubts his ability to do the work , all adjustments , maintenance , and repair should be carried out only by qualified mechanics .
Main Fuse Access
In order to perform the work efficiently and to avoid costly mistakes , read the text , thoroughly familiarize yourself with the procedures before starting work , and then do the work carefully in a clean area .
Whenever special tools or equipment are specified , do not use makeshift tools or equipment .
Precision measurements can only be made if the proper instruments are used , and the use of substitute tools may adversely affect safe operation .
For the duration of the warranty period , we recommend that all repairs and scheduled maintenance be performed in accordance with this service manual .
Any owner maintenance or repair procedure not performed in accordance with this manual may void the warranty .
To get the longest life out of your vehicle :
Follow the Periodic Maintenance Chart in the Service Manual .
Be alert for problems and non-scheduled maintenance .
Use proper tools and genuine Kawasaki Motorcycle parts .
Special tools , gauges , and testers that are necessary when servicing Kawasaki motorcycles are introduced by the Service Manual .
Genuine parts provided as spare parts are listed in the Parts Catalog .
Follow the procedures in this manual carefully .
Don ' t take shortcuts .
Remember to keep complete records of maintenance and repair with dates and any new parts installed .
How to Use This Manual
The Quick Reference Guide shows you all of the product ' s system and assists in locating their chapters .
Each chapter in turn has its own comprehensive Table of Contents .
Then , use the Table of Contents on the first page of the chapter to find the Spark Plug section .
This manual contains four more symbols ( in addition to WARNING and CAUTION ) which will help you distinguish different types of information .
Indicates a procedural step or work to be done .
Recycle Wastes .
Indicates a procedural sub-step or how to do the work of the procedural step it follows .
It also precedes the text of a NOTE .
Indicates a conditional step or what action to take based on the results of the test or inspection in the procedural step or sub-step it follows .
In most chapters an exploded view illustration of the system components follows the Table of Contents .
In these illustrations you will find the instructions indicating which parts require specified tightening torque , oil , grease or a locking agent during assembly .
Before Servicing
Before starting to perform an inspection service or carry out a disassembly and reassembly operation on a motorcycle , read the precautions given below .
To facilitate actual operations , notes , illustrations , photographs , cautions , and detailed descriptions have been included in each chapter wherever necessary .
This section explains the items that require particular attention during the removal and reinstallation or disassembly and reassembly of general parts .
Especially note the following :
It ' s illegal and thoughtless to put used engine oil in the trash , down a drain , or on the ground .
Battery Ground
Before completing any service on the motorcycle , disconnect the battery wires from the battery to prevent the engine from accidentally turning over .
Disconnect the ground wire ( - ) first and then the positive ( + ) .
When completed with the service , first connect the positive ( + ) wire to the positive ( + ) terminal of the battery then the negative ( - ) wire to the negative terminal .
Edges of Parts
Lift large or heavy parts wearing gloves to prevent injury from possible sharp edges on the parts .
Solvent
Use a high-flush point solvent when cleaning parts .
High-flush point solvent should be used according to directions of the solvent manufacturer .
Cleaning Vehicle before Disassembly
Used oil , petrol , and cleaning solvents contain poisons that can hurt refuse workers and contaminate our drinking water , lakes , rivers , and oceans .
Clean the vehicle thoroughly before disassembly .
Dirt or other foreign materials entering into sealed areas during vehicle disassembly can cause excessive wear and decrease performance of the vehicle .
Arrangement and Cleaning of Removed Parts
Disassembled parts are easy to confuse .
Arrange the parts according to the order the parts were disassembled and clean the parts in order prior to assembly .
Storage of Removed Parts
After all the parts including subassembly parts have been cleaned , store the parts in a clean area .
Put a clean cloth or plastic sheet over the parts to protect from any foreign materials that may collect before re-assembly .
Reuse of worn or damaged parts may lead to serious accident .
Visually inspect removed parts for corrosion , discoloration , or other damage .
Fastening and condition of cylinder coupling .
Before changing your oil , ensure you have the proper containers .
Refer to the appropriate sections of this manual for service limits on individual parts .
Replace the parts if any damage has been found or if the part is beyond its service limit .
Replacement Parts
Replacement parts must be KAWASAKI genuine or recommended by KAWASAKI .
Gaskets , O-rings , oil seals , grease seals , circlips or cotter pins must be replaced with new ones whenever disassembled .
Assembly Order
In most cases assembly order is the reverse of disassembly , however , if assembly order is provided in this Service Manual , follow the procedures given .
Tightening Sequence
Generally , when installing a part with several bolts , nuts , or screws , start them all in their holes and tighten them to a snug fit .
Then tighten them according to the specified sequence to prevent case warpage or deformation which can lead to malfunction .
Put oil and other toxic wastes in separate sealed containers and take them to a recycling centre .
Conversely when loosening the bolts , nuts , or screws , first loosen all of them by about a quarter turn and then remove them .
If the specified tightening sequence is not indicated , tighten the fasteners alternating diagonally .
Incorrect torque applied to a bolt , nut , or screw may lead to serious damage .
Tighten fasteners to the specified torque using a good quality torque wrench .
Often , the tightening sequence is followed twice-initial tightening and final tightening with torque wrench .
Force
Use common sense during disassembly and assembly , excessive force can cause expensive or hard to repair damage .
When necessary , remove screws that have a non-permanent locking agent applied using an impact driver .
Gasket , O-ring
Hardening , shrinkage , or damage of both gaskets and O-rings after disassembly can reduce sealing performance .
Call your local office of public works or environmental services to find a recycling centre in your area , and to get instructions on how to dispose of non-recyclable wastes .
Remove old gaskets and clean the sealing surfaces thoroughly so that no gasket material or other material remains .
Install new gaskets and replace used O-rings when re-assembling
Liquid Gasket , Non-permanent Locking Agent
For applications that require Liquid Gasket or a Non-permanent Locking Agent , clean the surfaces so that no oil residue remains before applying liquid gasket or non-permanent locking agent .
Do not apply them excessively .
Excessive application can clog oil passages and cause serious damage .
Press
For items such as bearings or oil seals that must be pressed into place , apply small amount of oil to the contact area .
Be sure to maintain proper alignment and use smooth movements when installing .
Ball Bearing and Needle Bearing
Do not remove pressed ball or needle unless removal is absolutely necessary .
Replace with new ones whenever removed .
Press bearings with the manufacturer and size marks facing out .
Press the bearing into place by putting pressure on the correct bearing race as shown .
Pressing the incorrect race can cause pressure between the inner and outer race and result in bearing damage .
Oil Seal , Grease Seal
Do not remove pressed oil or grease seals unless removal is necessary .
Press new oil seals with manufacture and size marks facing out .
ensure the seal is aligned properly when installing .
Apply specified grease to the lip of seal before installing the seal .
rider and all accessories
Circlips , Cotter Pins
Replace circlips or cotter pins that were removed with new ones .
Take care not to open the clip excessively when installing to prevent deformation .
It is important to lubricate rotating or sliding parts during assembly to minimize wear during initial operation .
Lubrication points are called out throughout this manual , apply the specific oil or grease as specified .
Direction of Engine Rotation
When rotating the crankshaft by hand , the free play amount of rotating direction will affect the adjustment .
Rotate the crankshaft to positive direction ( clockwise viewed from output side ) .
Electrical Wires
A two-color wire is identified first by the primary color and then the stripe color .
Unless instructed otherwise , electrical wires must be connected to those of the same color .
Instrument
Use a meter that has enough accuracy for an accurate measurement .
Read the manufacture ' s instructions thoroughly before using the meter .
Incorrect values may lead to improper adjustments .
Model Identification
General Specifications
Items
Dimensions
skid
Position the wheel nuts .
The machine must be bolted down securely on the skid .
The tram is new .
The tram is crowded .
The tram travels slowly every morning and it is crowded .
Seat Height
The seat height is not correct . This is a risk for the infant .
The seat height is not correct . This may be dangerous for the infant .
the seat height is not correct
Dry Mass
Curb Mass :
Front :
Rear :
Performance
4-stroke , DOHC , 2-cylinder
Liquid-cooled
Bore and Stroke
53 kW @ 8,500 r / min ( rpm ) ,
66 N · m ( 6.7 kgf · m ) @ 7,000 r / min ( rpm ) ,
FI ( Fuel Injection ) KEIHIN TTK38 2
Battery and coil ( transistorized )
Timing Advance
Electronically advanced ( digital igniter )
From 10 ° BTDC @ 1,300 r / min ( rpm ) to 35 ° BTDC @ 4,800 r / min ( rpm )
Valve Timing :
Inlet :
Duration
Engine Oil :
Viscosity
Drive Train
Primary Reduction System :
Gear
Reduction Ratio
Wet multi disc
Transmission :
Gear Ratios :
Final Drive System :
5.473 @ Top gear
Caster ( Rake Angle )
Front Tire :
Tubeless
Double Stop Switches .
ENGINE NO .
Rear Tire :
Front Suspension :
Wheel Travel
Rear Suspension :
Brake Type :
Dual discs
Single disc
Electrical Equipment
Headlight :
Semi-sealed beam
Bulb
Alternator :
Three-phase AC
Rated Output
24 A / 14 V @ 5,000 r / min ( rpm )
Specifications are subject to change without notice , and may not apply to every country .
Unit Conversion Table
Prefixes for Units :
COLOUR
Prefix
Symbol
Power
milli
CODE
Units of Mass :
oz
Units of Volume :
gal ( US )
qt ( US )
pint ( US )
pint ( imp )
mL
oz ( US )
oz ( imp )
Units of Force :
Units of Length :
mile
The colour code is helpful when ordering replacement parts .
in
Units of Torque :
ft · lb
in · lb
Units of Pressure :
Units of Speed :
Record the colour and code here for your reference .
Units of Power :
Units of Temperature :
Periodic Maintenance
The initial maintenance is vitally important and must never be neglected .
The scheduled maintenance must be done in accordance with this chart to keep the motorcycle in good running condition .
The initial maintenance is vitally important and must not be neglected .
Periodic Inspection
ODOMETER READING
INSPECTION
Fuel System
Fuel hose and pipe damage - inspect
Fuel hose and pipe installation condition - inspect
Coolant leak ( radiator hose and pipe ) - inspect
Radiator hose installation condition - inspect
Air Suction System
Engine Top End
Clutch operation ( play , disengagement , engagement ) - inspect
API Service Classification SE , SF or SG .
Wheels and Tires
Wheel / tire damage - inspect
Wheel bearing damage - inspect
Brake System
Brake fluid leak ( brake hose and pipe ) - inspect
Brake hose and pipe damage - inspect
Brake operation ( effectiveness , play , no drag ) - inspect
Suspensions
Steering System
Electrical System
Sidestand switch operation - inspect
Service more frequently when operating in severe conditions ; dusty , wet , muddy , high speed or frequent starting / stopping .
Periodic Replacement Parts
CHANGE / REPLACE ITEM
Fuel hose
Radiator hose and O-ring
Brake hose and pipe
Brake fluid
Torque and Locking Agent
The following tables list the tightening torque for the major fasteners requiring use of a non-permanent locking agent or liquid gasket .
Position and operation of sensors .
neutral indicator lamp
Letters used in the “ Remarks ” column mean :
Apply engine oil .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads .
Left-hand threads
Turn the dial anti-clockwise so the secret combination will open the gate to the chamber
Turn the dial anti-clockwise
Turn the dial clockwise
Turn it clockwise
turn it clockwise
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution .
mixture of the engine oil and molybdenum disulfide grease in a weight ratio 10 : 1
Follow without exception the specified tightening sequence .
Apply silicone grease ( ex .
PBC grease ) .
Every time
Every time that
If there is
Apply silicone sealant .
Fastener
Torque
Remarks
Fuel Pump Bolts
Right Switch Housing Screws
Sidestand Switch Bolt
Crankshaft Sensor Bolts
( African Models )
( South African Models )
( North-African Models )
( ME Models )
( Middle East Models )
( US & Canadian Models )
( US Models )
( Asian Models )
( European Models )
( Europe Models )
Oxygen Sensor ( Europe Models )
Speed Sensor Bolt
Timing Rotor Bolt
Baffle Plate Bolts
Radiator Hose Clamp Screws
Thermostat Housing Bolts
Water Pump Drain Bolt
Water Pump Impeller Bolt
Air Suction Valve Cover Bolts
Camshaft Chain Tensioner Cap Bolt
EVERY 500 km ( 300 mi ) or 50 operating hours
Camshaft Chain Tensioner Mounting Bolts
Camshaft Sprocket Bolts
Cylinder Head Bolts ( M10 ) :
Cylinder Head Bolts ( M6 )
Rear Camshaft Chain Guide Bolts
Throttle Body Holder Bolts
Cylinder Bolt ( M8 )
Cylinder Nut ( M10 )
Cylinder Bolts ( M6 )
Exhaust Pipe Manifold Holder Nuts
Muffler Body Mounting Bolt ( Front )
Muffler Body Mounting Bolt ( Rear )
Clutch Cable Clamp Bolt
Clutch Cable Holder Bolts
Clutch Cover Mounting Bolts
Clutch Lever Clamp Bolts
Oil Filler Plug
Hand-tighten
0-1 , 500 m ( 0-5 , 000 feet ) 1,000 -2 , 500 m ( 3,000 -8 , 000 feet ) or higher
Oil Pump Chain Guide Bolts
Oil Pump Sprocket Bolt
Engine Lubrication System
Engine Oil Drain Bolt
Filter Plate Bolts
Holder Mounting Bolt
Lower Fairing Bracket Bolts
Oil Filter
Oil Pan Bolts
Oil Passage Plug
Oil Pipe Plate Bolt
Oil Plate Bolts
Oil Pressure Relief Valve
Oil Pump Cover Bolts
Engine Removal / Installation
Engine Mounting Bracket Bolts
Front Engine Mounting Bolts
Push the fuel fill door closed until it latches .
Rear Engine Mounting Nuts
Crankshaft / Transmission
Breather Plate Bolts
Connecting Rod Big End Nuts
see Text
Crankcase Bolts ( M8 , L = 73 mm )
Crankcase Bolts ( M9 , L = 113 mm )
Oil Pipe Bolts
Shift Shaft Return Spring Pin
Shift Drum Bearing Holder Screw
Condition & fastenings of switch actuators .
If the door won ' t close fully , do not force it .
Gear Positioning Lever Bolt
Neutral Switch Holder Screw
Shift Drum Cam Bolt
Shift Rod Plate Bolt
Shift Shaft Cover Bolts
Shift Shaft Cover Screw
Transmission Case Bolts
Wheels / Tires
Front Axle Clamp Bolt
Final Drive
Unlock the drivers door first .
Engine Sprocket Nut
Speed Sensor Bracket Bolts
Bleed Valve
Brake Hose Banjo Bolts
Brake Lever Pivot Bolt
Brake Lever Pivot Bolt Locknut
Front Brake Disc Mounting Bolts
Front Brake Light Switch Screw
Front Brake Reservoir Cap Screws
Front Caliper Mounting Bolts
Front Master Cylinder Clamp Bolts
Rear Brake Disc Mounting Bolts
Rear Caliper Mounting Bolts
Rear Master Cylinder Push Rod Locknut
Suspension
Front Fork Bottom Allen Bolts
Front Fork Clamp Bolts ( Lower )
The vehicle doors and the fuel fill door will automatically relock if the remote transmitter unlock function is used .
Front Fork Clamp Bolts ( Upper )
Front Fork Top Plugs
Rear Shock Absorber Bolt
Rear Shock Absorber Nut
Handlebar Holder Bolts
Left Switch Housing Screws
Steering Stem Head Bolt
Steering Stem Nut
Footpeg Stay Bolts
Sidestand Bolt
In this instance , the security relock function ( if equipped ) can be deactivated by briefly opening then closing the driver ' s door .
Lower Fairing Mounting Bolts
License Plate Light Cover Screws
License Plate Light Mounting Screws
Alternator Cover Bolts
Alternator Lead Holding Plate Bolt
Alternator Rotor Bolt
Engine Ground Cable Terminal Bolt
Starter Motor Cable Terminal Nut
Starter Motor Clutch Bolts
Starter Motor Mounting Bolts
Starter Motor Terminal Locknut
Starter Motor Through Bolts
Stator Coil Bolts
The table below , relating tightening torque to thread diameter , lists the basic torque for the bolts and nuts .
Use this table for only the bolts and nuts which do not require a specific torque value .
All of the values are for use with dry solvent-cleaned threads .
Basic Torque for General Fasteners
Threads Diameter ( mm )
Specifications
Item
The fuel door and its latching mechanism can be permanently damaged if the fuel door is forced closed when the driver ' s door is locked .
Throttle Grip Free Play
Bypass Screws ( Turn Out )
- 3 1 / 2 ( for reference )
Engine Vacuum
± 1.3 kPa ( 265 ± 10 mm Hg )
Polyurethane Foam
Coolant :
Type ( recommended )
Permanent type of antifreeze
Mixed Ratio
Soft water 50 % , Coolant 50 %
Freezing Point
Total Amount
Valve Clearance :
Clutch Lever Free Play
1.7 L ( when filter is not removed )
1.9 L ( when filter is removed )
2.4 L ( when engine is completely dry )
Pull the bulb straight out of its holder .
Level
Between upper and lower level lines ( after idling or running )
Tread Depth :
Up to 180 kg load :
Air Pressure ( when Cold ) :
Drive Chain Wear ( 20-link Length )
Standard Chain :
Make
Push the new bulb in until it bottoms in its holder .
Link
114 links
Brake Fluid :
Grade
Brake Pad Lining Thickness :
Brake Light Timing :
Pulled ON
ON after about 10 mm of pedal travel
6.4 Planned Maintenance Task List ( Contd . )
Spark Plug :
Special Tools
Pilot Screw Adjuster , E :
Periodic Maintenance Procedures
Air Cleaner Element Cleaning
In dusty areas , the element should be cleaned more frequently than the recommended interval .
After riding through rain or on muddily roads , the element should be cleaned immediately .
If dirt or dust is allowed to pass through into the throttle assy , the throttle may become stuck , possibly causing accident .
Remove :
Fuel Tank ( see Fuel Tank Removal in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter )
You will also hear a beep when you turn the ignition switch to the ON ( II ) position , and each time you open any door or the tailgate with the key in the ON ( II ) position .
Air Switching Valve Hose ( Disconnect )
Air Cleaner Element Screw
Upper Plastic Holder
The wire screen is fastened with an adhesive for the shaded portion .
Do not remove the wire screen .
Clean the element in a well-ventilated area , and ensure that there are no sparks or flame anywhere near the working area .
Because of the danger of highly flammable liquids , do not use gasoline or a low flash-point solvent to clean the element .
Clean the element in a bath of high flash-point solvent , and then dry it with compressed air or by shaking it .
After cleaning , saturate a clean , lint-free towel with SE , SF , or SG class SAE 30 oil and apply the oil to the element by tapping the element outside with the towel .
Visually check the element for tears or breaks .
If the element has any tears or breaks , replace the element .
Install the element unit with the foam element side ( gray ) facing down .
Throttle Control System Inspection
Check that the throttle grip moves smoothly from full open to close , and the throttle closes quickly and completely by the return spring in all steering positions .
If the throttle grip doesn ' t return properly , check the throttle cable routing , grip free play , and cable damage .
Check the throttle grip free play .
If the free play is incorrect , adjust the throttle cable .
Standard :
If necessary , adjust the throttle cable as follows .
Loosen the locknut at the upper end of the accelerator cable .
You can disconnect the USB flash memory device in any time even if the USB mode is selected on the audio system .
Turn the adjuster in completely so as to give the throttle grip plenty of play .
Loosen the locknut at the middle of the decelerator cable .
Turn the adjuster until there is no play when the throttle grip is completely closed .
Turn the accelerator cable adjuster until the proper amount of throttle grip free play is obtained .
Engine Vacuum Synchronization Inspection
These procedures are explained on the assumption that the inlet and exhaust systems of the engine are in good condition .
Situate the motorcycle so that it is vertical .
Do not remove the inlet air pressure sensor hose on the left fitting of the throttle body .
Connect a commercially available vacuum gauge and hoses to the fittings of the throttle body as shown .
Special Tool
Always follow the USB flash memory device ' s instructions when you remove it .
Connect a highly accurate tachometer to one of the stick coil primary leads .
Start the engine and warm it up thoroughly .
Open and close the throttle .
If the idle speed is out of the specified range , adjust it .
Do not measure the idle speed by the tachometer of the meter unit .
35.3 ± 1.3 kPa ( 265 ± 10 mmHg ) at Idle Speed 1,300 ± 50 r / min ( rpm )
If any one vacuum is not within the specification , turn in the bypass screws until it seats fully but not tightly .
Do not over tighten them .
They could be damaged , requiring replacement .
Turn out the bypass screw of the higher vacuum between # 1 and # 2 to the lower vacuum .
Open and close the throttle valves after each measurement and adjust the idle speed as necessary .
Inspect the vacuums as before .
If both vacuums are within the specification , finish the engine vacuum synchronization .
If any vacuum can not be adjusted within the specification , remove the bypass screws # 1 , # 2 and clean them .
Remove the bypass screw , spring , washer and O-ring [ D ] .
Check the bypass screw and its hole for carbon deposits .
If any carbon accumulates , wipe the carbon off the bypass screw and the hole , using a cotton pad penetrated with a high-flash point solvent .
Replace the O-ring with a new one .
Check the tapered portion [ E ] of the bypass screw for wear or damage .
If the bypass screw is worn or damaged , replace it .
front suspension spring pre-load adjuster
Turn in the bypass screw until it seats fully but not tightly .
Repeat the same procedure for other bypass screws .
Repeat the synchronization .
If the vacuums are correct , check the output voltage of the main throttle sensor ( see Main Throttle Sensor Output Voltage Inspection in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Throttle Sensor Setting Adapter # 1 :
Main Throttle Sensor Output Voltage
Connections to Adapter
Meter ( + ) : R ( sensor Y / W ) lead
Meter ( - ) : W ( sensor BR / BK ) lead
1.055 - 1.095 V DC ( at idle throttle opening )
If the output voltage is out of the range , check the throttle input voltage ( see Main Throttle Sensor Input Voltage Inspection in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Remove the vacuum gauge hoses and install the vacuum hoses and rubber caps .
Idle Speed Inspection
With the engine idling , turn the handlebar to both sides .
If handlebar movement changes the idle speed , the throttle cables may be improperly adjusted or incorrectly routed or damaged .
Be sure to correct any of these conditions before riding ( see Throttle Control System Inspection or Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Operation with improperly adjusted , incorrectly routed or damaged cables could result in an unsafe riding condition .
Check idle speed .
1,300 ± 50 r / min ( rpm )
Idle Speed Adjustment
Turn the adjusting screw until the idle speed is correct .
Open and close the throttle a few times to ensure that the idle speed is within the specified range .
Fuel Hose Inspection ( fuel leak , damage , installation condition )
However , if the motorcycle is not properly handled , the high pressure inside the fuel line can cause fuel to leak or the hose to burst .
Remove the fuel tank ( see Fuel Tank Removal Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) and check the fuel hose .
Replace the fuel hose if any fraying , cracks or bulges are noticed .
Check that the hoses are routed according to Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter .
Replace the hose if it has been sharply bent or kinked .
Hose Joints
Fuel Hose
Reverse Assist Knob
Check that the hose joints are securely connected .
Push and pull the hose joint back and forth more than two times , and ensure it is locked .
If it does not locked , reinstall the hose joint .
ensure the hose joint is installed correctly on the delivery pipe by sliding the joint , or the fuel could leak .
Check the level when the engine is cold ( room or ambient temperature ) .
Check the coolant level in the reserve tank with the motorcycle held perpendicular ( Do not use the sidestand ) .
If the coolant level is lower than the “ L ” level line , remove the right center fairing ( see Center Fairing Removal in the Frame chapter ) and unscrew the reserve tank cap , and add coolant to the “ F ” level line .
For refilling , add the specified mixture of coolant and soft water .
Transfer Unit Hyd Cyl .
Adding water alone dilutes the coolant and degrades its anticorrosion properties .
The diluted coolant can attack the aluminum engine parts .
In an emergency , soft water alone can be added .
But the diluted coolant must be returned to the correct mixture ratio within a few days .
If coolant must be added often or the reservoir tank has run completely dry , there is probably leakage in the cooling system .
Check the system for leaks .
Coolant ruins painted surfaces .
Immediately wash away any coolant that spills on the frame , engine , wheels or other painted parts .
Brake Hose Damage and Installation Condition Inspection
The high pressure inside the radiator hose and pipe can cause coolant to leak or the hose to burst if the line is not properly maintained .
AIR CLEANER HOUSING DRAIN TUBE
Visually inspect the hoses for signs of deterioration .
Squeeze the hoses .
A hose should not be hard and brittle , nor should it be soft or swollen .
Replace the hose if any fraying , cracks or bulges are noticed .
Check that the hoses are securely connected and clamps are tightened correctly .
Air Suction System Damage Inspection
Fuel Tank ( see Fuel Tank Removal in the Fuel System chapter )
Fuel Pump Lead Connector
Oxygen Sensor Lead Connector
Extension Tube
ENGINE OIL FILTER
Pull the air switching valve hose out of the air cleaner housing .
Start the engine and run it at idle speed .
Plug the air switching valve hose end with your finger and feel vacuum pulsing in the hose .
If there is no vacuum pulsation , check the hose line for leak .
If there is no leak , check the air switching valve ( see Air Switching Valve Unit Test in the Electrical System chapter ) or air suction valve ( see Air Suction Valve Inspection in the Engine Top End chapter ) .
Valve clearance must be checked and adjusted when the engine is cold ( room temperature ) .
Cylinder ( see Cylinder Removal in the Engine Top End chapter )
Check the valve clearance when the pistons are at TDC .
The pistons are numbered beginning with the engine left side .
Measure the valve clearance of the valves for which the cam are turned away from each other .
ENGINE OIL STRAINER SCREEN IN OIL TANK
Using the thickness gauge , measure the valve clearance between cam and valve lifter .
Each piston has two inlet and two exhaust valves .
Measure these two inlet or exhaust valves at the same crankshaft position .
Check the valve clearance using this method only .
Checking the clearance at any other cam position may result in improper valve clearance .
Valve Clearance Measuring Position
# 1 Piston TDC at End of Compression Stroke
Inlet valve clearances of # 1 piston , and
Exhaust valve clearances of # 1 piston
If the valve clearance is not with in the specified range , first record the clearance , and adjust it .
Valve Clearance Adjustment
To change the valve clearance , remove the camshaft chain tensioner , camshafts and valve lifters .
Replace the shim with one of a different thickness .
Mark and record the valve lifter and shim locations so they can be reinstalled in their original positions .
If there is no clearance , select a shim which is several sizes smaller and then measure the clearance .
To select a new shim which brings the valve clearance within the specified range , refer to the Valve Clearance Adjustment Charts .
Apply a thin coat of molybdenum disulfide grease to the valve lifters .
Install the camshafts .
Be sure to time the camshafts properly ( see Camshaft Installation in the Engine Top End chapter ) .
Remeasure any valve clearance that was adjusted .
BRAKE FLUID
Do not put shim stock under the shim .
This may cause the shim to pop out at high rpm , causing extensive engine damage .
Do not grind the shim .
This may cause it to fracture , causing extensive engine damage .
VALVE CLEARANCE ADJUSTMENT CHART INLET VALVE
Measure the clearance ( when engine is cold ) .
Check present shim size .
Match clearance in vertical column with present shim size in horizontal column .
Install the shim specified where the lines intersect .
This shim will give the proper clearance .
BRAKE PADS WEAR
Example :
Present shim is 2.95 mm .
Measured clearance is 0.47 mm .
Replace 2.95 mm shim with 3.15 mm shim .
Remeasure the valve clearance and readjust if necessary .
VALVE CLEARANCE ADJUSTMENT CHART EXHAUST VALVE
Clutch Operation Inspection
Pull the clutch lever just enough to take up the free play .
Measure the gap between the lever and the lever holder .
If the gap is too wide , the clutch may not release fully .
BRAKELIGHT SWITCH
If the gap is too narrow , the clutch may not engage fully .
In either case , adjust it .
To avoid a serious burn , never touch the engine or exhaust pipe during clutch adjustment .
Turn the adjuster so that 5 - 6 mm of threads are visible .
Open the bleed valve .
Slide the dust cover at the middle of the clutch cable out of place .
Loosen the locknut at the middle of clutch cable .
Turn the adjusting nut until the free play is correct .
Be sure that the outer cable end at the clutch lever is fully seated in the adjuster at the clutch lever , or it could slip into place later , creating enough cable play to prevent clutch disengagement .
After the adjustment , tighten the locknut and start the engine and check that the clutch does not slip and that it releases properly .
REVERSE LOCK SYSTEM
Air Pressure Inspection
Measure the tire air pressure with an air pressure gauge when the tires are cold ( that is , when the motorcycle has not been ridden more than a mile during the past 3 hours ) .
Adjust the tire air pressure according to the specifications if necessary .
Air Pressure ( when Cold )
Up to 180 kg225 kPa ( 2.25 kgf / cm ² )
Wheel / Tire Damage Inspection
Remove any imbedded stones or other foreign particles from tread .
Visually inspect the tire for cracks and cuts , and replace the tire if necessary .
Visually inspect the wheel for cracks , cuts and dents damage .
If any damage is found , replace the wheel if necessary .
SKID PLATES , ENGINE GUARD
Tire Tread Wear , Abnormal Wear Inspection
Measure the tread depth at the center of the tread with a depth gauge .
Since the tire may wear unevenly , take measurement at several places .
If any measurement is less than the service limit , replace the tire ( see Tire Removal / Installation in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) .
Tread Depth
Service Limit :
( AT , CH , DE ) 1.6 mm
( Up to 130 km / h ( 80 mph ) )
Most countries may have their own regulations a minimum tire tread depth :
Check and balance the wheel when a tire is replaced with a new one .
Why have you purchased more stuff than we need ?
Fastening and condition of cylinder coupling
Felt pad x 3
Wheel Bearing Damage Inspection
Raise the front wheel off the ground with jack ( see Front Wheel Removal in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) .
Turn the handlebar all the way to the right or left .
Inspect the roughness of the front wheel bearing by pushing and pulling the wheel .
Spin the front wheel lightly , and check for smoothly turn , roughness , binding or noise .
If roughness , binding or noise is found , remove the front wheel and inspect the wheel bearing ( see Front Wheel Removal , Hub Bearing Inspection in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) .
Raise the rear wheel off the ground with stand ( see Rear Wheel Removal in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) .
Inspect the roughness of the rear wheel bearing by pushing and pulling the wheel .
Spin the rear wheel lightly , and check for smoothly turn , roughness , binding or noise .
If roughness , binding or noise is found , remove the rear wheel and inspect the wheel bearing ( see Rear Wheel Removal , Hub Bearing Inspection in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) and coupling ( see Coupling Bearing Inspection in the Final Drive chapter ) .
Conventions about This Manual
Drive Chain Lubrication Condition Inspection
If a special lubricant is not available , a heavy oil such as SAE 90 is preferred to a lighter oil because it will stay on the chain longer and provide better lubrication .
If the chain appears especially dirty , clean it before lubrication .
The O-rings between the side plates seal in the lubricant between the pin and the bushing .
To avoid damaging the O-rings and resultant loss of lubricant , observe the following rules .
Use only kerosene or diesel oil for cleaning an O-ring drive chain .
Any other cleaning solution such as gasoline or trichloroethylene will cause deterioration and swelling of the O-ring .
Immediately blow the chain dry with compressed air after cleaning .
Complete cleaning and drying the chain within 10 minutes .
Apply oil to the sides of the rollers so that oil will penetrate to the rollers and bushings .
* The types of functions and operations that can be used for a particular disc vary depending on the features built into that disc .
Apply the oil to the O-rings so that the O-rings will be coated with oil .
Oil Applied Areas
O-rings
Drive Chain Slack Inspection
Check the slack with the motorcycle setting on its sidestand .
Clean the chain if it is dirty , and lubricate it if it appears dry .
Check the wheel alignment ( see Wheel Alignment Inspection ) .
Rotate the rear wheel to find the position where the chain is tightest .
Measure the vertical movement ( chain slack ) midway between the sprockets .
If the chain slack exceeds the standard , adjust it .
In some cases , these functions and operations may differ from the descriptions given in this Owner ’ s Manual .
Chain Slack
Drive Chain Slack Adjustment
Raise the rear wheel off the ground with stand .
Loosen the both chain adjuster locknuts .
If the chain is too loose , turn out the left and right chain adjuster nuts [ D ] evenly .
If the chain is too tight , turn in the left and right chain adjuster nuts evenly , and kick the wheel forward .
Turn both chain adjuster nuts evenly until the drive chain has the correct amount of slack .
Misalignment of the wheel will result in abnormal wear and may result in an unsafe riding condition .
Tighten both chain adjuster locknuts securely .
Tighten the axle nut .
* The drawings about the front panel display used in this Owner ’ s Manual are purely for the purposes of explanation .
Rear Engine Mounting Nuts : 44 N · m ( 4.5 kgf · m )
Turn the wheel , measure the chain slack again at the tightest position , and readjust if necessary .
Insert a new cotter pin .
When inserting the cotter pin , if the slots in the nut do not align with the cotter pin hole in the axle , tighten the nut clockwise up to next alignment .
It should be within 30 ° .
Bend the cotter pin over the nut .
If the rear axle nut is not securely tightened or the cotter pin is not installed , an unsafe riding condition may result .
Wheel Alignment Inspection
If they do not , adjust the chain slack and align the wheel alignment ( see Drive Chain Slack Adjustment ) .
Wheel alignment can be also checked using the straightedge or string method .
The actual displays may differ slightly from what are shown here .
Drive Chain Wear Inspection
Chain Cover ( see Swingarm Removal in the Suspension chapter )
If there is any irregularity , replace the drive chain .
Lubricate the drive chain if it appears dry .
Stretch the chain taut by hanging a 98 N ( 10 kg ) weight on the chain .
Measure the length of 20 links on the straight part of the chain from the pin center of the 1st pin to the pin center of the 21st pin .
If any measurements exceed the service limit , replace the chain .
Also , replace the front and rear sprockets when the drive chain is replaced .
Drive Chain 20-link Length
If the drive chain wear exceeds the service limit , replace the chain or an unsafe riding condition may result .
Placement of the unit
For safely , use only the standard chain .
It is an endless type and should not be cut for installation .
Standard Chain
Make :
Link :
Chain Guide Inspection
Remove the seat ( see Seat Removal in the Frame chapter ) .
Visually inspect the chain guide .
Replace the chain guide if it shows any signs of abnormal wear or damage .
Brake Fluid Leak ( Brake Hose and Pipe ) Inspection
High-quality hardened tool steel is used for the pin-point feet attached to the bottom of the player .
Apply the brake lever or pedal and inspect the brake fluid leak from the brake hoses and fittings .
If the brake fluid leaked from any position , inspect or replace the problem part .
Inspect the brake hoses and fittings for deterioration , cracks and signs of leakage .
The high pressure inside the brake line can cause fluid to leak or the hose to burst if the line is not properly maintained .
Bend and twist the rubber hose while examining it .
Replace the hose if any crack , bulge or leakage is noticed .
Engine Mounting Bracket bolts : 25 N · m ( 2.5 kgf · m )
Inspect the brake hose routing .
If any brake hose routing is incorrect , route the brake hose according to Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter .
Brake Operation Inspection
Although the outer feet may appear loose , the weight of the unit causes them to become firm and secure .
Inspect the operation of the front and rear brake by running the vehicle on the dry road .
If the brake operation is insufficiency , inspect the brake system .
When inspecting by running the vehicle , note a surrounding traffic situation enough in the place of safety .
Brake Fluid Level Inspection
Check that the brake fluid level in the front brake reservoir is above the lower level line .
Hold the reservoir horizontal by turning the handlebar when checking brake fluid level .
If the fluid level is lower than the lower level line , fill the reservoir to the upper level line in the reservoir .
Check that the brake fluid level in the rear brake reservoir is above the lower level line .
If the fluid level is lower than the lower level line , fill the reservoir to the upper level line .
After changing the fluid , use only the same type and brand of fluid thereafter .
The design effectively damps and reduces vibration .
Recommended Disc Brake Fluid
Grade :
Follow the procedure below to install the rear brake fluid reservoir cap correctly .
First , tighten the rear brake fluid reservoir cap clockwise by hand until slight resistance is felt indicating that the cap is seated on the reservoir body , then tighten the cap an additional 1 / 6 turn [ D ] while holding the brake fluid reservoir body .
Check the lining thickness of the pads in each caliper .
If the lining thickness of either pad is less than the service limit , replace both pads in the caliper as a set .
Pad Lining Thickness
Brake Light Switch Operation Inspection
Turn on the ignition switch .
The brake light should go on when the brake lever is applied or after the brake pedal is depressed about 10 mm .
Functions and operation of hydraulic cylinder
a Pin-point foot
If it does not , adjust the brake light switch .
Connect the connectors .
If it does not go on , inspect or replace the following items .
Battery ( see Charging Condition Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Brake Light ( see Tail / Brake Light Removal in the Electrical System chapter )
Main Fuse 30 A and Taillight Fuse 10 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Front Brake Light Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Rear Brake Light Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Harness ( see Wiring Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Front Forks / Rear Shock Absorber Operation Inspection
b Bottom plate of the unit
Pump the forks down and up 4 or 5 times , and inspect the smooth stroke .
If the forks do not smoothly or noise is found , inspect the fork oil level or fork clamps ( see Front Fork Oil Change in the Suspension chapter ) .
Pump the seat down and up 4 or 5 times , and inspect the smooth stroke .
If the shock absorber does not smoothly stroke or noise is found , inspect the oil leak ( see Rear Shock Absorber Oil Leak Inspection ) .
Front Fork Oil Leak Inspection
Visually inspect the front forks for oil leakage .
Replace or repair any defective parts , if necessary .
Rear Shock Absorber Oil Leak Inspection
Visually inspect the shock absorber for oil leakage .
If the oil leakage is found on it , replace the shock absorber with a new one .
c Steel foot
Steering Play Inspection
With the front wheel pointing straight ahead , alternately tap each end of the handlebar .
The front wheel should swing fully left and right from the force of gravity until the fork hits the stop .
If the wheel binds or catches before the stop , the steering is too tight .
Feel for steering looseness by pushing and pulling the forks .
If you feel looseness , the steering is too loose .
The cables and wiring will have some effect on the motion of the fork which must be taken into account .
Be sure the wires and cables are properly routed .
The bearings must be in good condition and properly lubricated in order for any test to be valid .
Steering Play Adjustment
d Cover foot
Straighten the claws of the claw washer .
Remove the steering stem locknut and claw washer .
Adjust the steering .
Steering Stem Nut Wrench :
If the steering is too tight , loosen the stem nut a fraction of a turn .
If the steering is too loose , tighten the stem nut a fraction of a turn .
Turn the stem nut 1 / 8 turn at time maximum .
Install the claw washer so that its bent side faces upward , and engage the bent claws with the grooves of stem locknut .
Hand tighten the stem locknut until it touches the claw washer .
Tighten the stem locknut clockwise until the claws are aligned with the grooves ( ranging from 2nd to 4th ) of stem nut [ D ] , and bend the 2 claws downward [ E ] .
e Cover foot retaining screws
Install the steering stem head .
Install the washer , and tighten the stem head bolt .
Tighten :
Font Engine Mounting Bolts : 44 N · m ( 4.5 kgf · m )
Check the steering again .
If the steering is still too tight or too loose , repeat the adjustment .
Install the removed parts ( see appropriate chapters ) .
Steering Stem Bearing Lubrication
Remove the steering stem ( see Stem , Stem Bearing Removal in the Steering chapter ) .
Using a high flash-point solvent , wash the upper and lower ball bearings in the cages , and wipe the upper and lower outer races , which are press-fitted into the frame head pipe , clean off grease and dirt .
* WARNING : Be careful to avoid injury when moving the unit .
Visually check the outer races and the ball bearings .
Replace the bearing assemblies if they show wear or damage .
Pack the upper and lower ball bearings in the cages with grease , and apply a light coat of grease to the upper and lower outer races .
Install the steering stem ( see Stem , Stem Bearing Installation in the Steering chapter ) .
Adjust the steering ( see Steering Play Adjustment ) .
Lights and Switches Operation Inspection
First Step
The following lights should go on according to below table .
City Light
goes on
This unit weighs about 14 kg .
Taillight
Meter Panel LCD [ D ]
( about 2 seconds )
If the light does not go on , inspect or replace the following item .
Applicable Bulb ( see Wiring Diagram in the Electrical System chapter )
Meter Unit for Meter Panel LCD ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Meter Unit for Neutral Indicator Light ( LED ) ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Meter Unit for Oil Pressure / Water Temperature Warning Indicator Light ( LED ) ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Meter Unit for FI Indicator Light ( LED ) ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
FT ( see FT Power Supply Inspection in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter )
Seek assistance when moving or placing this product .
Ignition Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Neutral Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Turn off the ignition switch .
The all lights should go off .
If the light does not go off , replace the ignition switch .
Second Step
Turn the ignition switch to P ( Park ) position .
The city light , taillight and license plate light should go on .
Third Step
Turn on the turn signal switch ( left or right position ) .
* To protect the supporting furniture surface , you may stick the felt pads supplied with the unit to the bottom of the metal feet .
The left or right turn signal lights ( front and rear ) according to the switch position should flash .
The turn signal indicator light ( LED ) in the meter unit should flash .
If the each light does not flash , inspect or replace the following item .
Turn Signal Light Bulb ( see Turn Signal Light Bulb Replacement in the Electrical System chapter )
Meter Unit for Turn Signal Light Indicator Light ( LED ) ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Turn Signal Relay Fuse 10 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Turn Signal Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Turn Signal Relay ( see Turn Signal Relay Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Push the turn signal switch .
The turn signal lights and indicator light ( LED ) should go off .
This player can playback discs bearing any of the following logos :
If the light does not go off , inspect or replace the following item .
Fourth Step
Set the dimmer switch to low beam position .
The low beam headlight should go on .
If the low beam headlight does not go on , inspect or replace the following item .
Headlight Low Beam Bulb ( see Headlight Bulb Replacement in the Electrical System chapter )
Headlight Fuse 10 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Dimmer Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Headlight Relay in Relay Box ( see Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Set the dimmer switch to high beam position .
Transfer Unit Fingers Hyd Cyl
D / A Converter ( D-05 )
The low beam and high beam headlights should go on .
The high beam indicator light ( LED ) should go on .
If the high beam headlight and / or high beam indicator light ( LED ) does not go on , inspect or replace the following item .
Headlight High Beam Bulb ( see Headlight Bulb Replacement in the Electrical System chapter )
Turn off the engine stop switch .
The low beam and high beam headlights should stay going on .
If the headlights and high beam indicator light ( LED ) does go off , inspect or replace the following item .
The headlights and high beam indicator light ( LED ) should go off .
Headlight Aiming Inspection
Inspect the headlight beam for aiming .
XLR digital cable
If the headlight beam points to one side rather than straight ahead , adjust the horizontal beam .
Headlight Beam Horizontal Adjustment
Turn the horizontal adjuster on the headlight with the screwdriver in or out until the beam points straight ahead .
If the headlight beam points too low or high , adjust the vertical beam .
Headlight Beam Vertical Adjustment
Turn the vertical adjuster on the headlight with the screwdriver in or out to adjust the headlight vertically .
ON high beam , the brightest points should be slightly below horizontal with the motorcycle on its wheels and the rider seated .
Low Beam
Height of Headlight Center
High Beam
i . LINK cable
Sidestand Switch Operation Inspection
Inspect the sidestand switch operation accordance to below table .
Sidestand Switch Operation
Sidestand
Gear Position
Engine Start
Engine Run
Neutral
Starts
Continue running
Connect one of these cables .
In Gear
Doesn ' t start
Down
Stops
If the sidestand switch operation does not work , inspect or replace the following item .
Main Fuse 30 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Ignition Fuse 10 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Sidestand Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Engine Stop Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Starter Button ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Esoteric uses Esoteric MEXCEL stress-free 7N cable as a reference .
Starter Relay ( see Starter Relay Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Relay Box ( see Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Starter Circuit Relay ( see Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
If the all parts are good condition , replace the fault-teller ( see FT Removal / Installation in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Engine Stop Switch Operation Inspection
Set the neutral position .
Turn the engine stop switch to stop position .
Push the starter button .
The engine does not start .
If the engine starts , inspect or replace the following item .
The following items are available in the Esoteric cable series .
Turn the engine stop switch to run position .
Push the starter button and run the engine .
Immediately the engine should be stop .
If the engine does not stop , inspect or replace the following item .
If the engine stop switch is good condition , replace the fault-teller ( see FT Removal / Installation in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Chassis Parts Lubrication
Before lubricating each part , clean off any rusty spots with rust remover and wipe off any grease , oil , dirt , or grime .
Lubricate the points listed below with indicated lubricant .
Whenever the vehicle has been operated under wet or rainy conditions , or especially after using a high-pressure water spray , perform the general lubrication .
Lubricate with Grease .
RCA audio cable
Brake Pedal
Rear Brake Joint Pin
Clutch Inner Cable Upper and Lower Ends
Throttle Inner Cable Upper and Lower Ends
Lubricate with Rust Inhibitor .
Throttle Cables
Lubricate the cables by seeping the oil between the cable and housing .
The cable may be lubricated by using a commercially available pressure cable lubricator with an aerosol cable lubricant .
With the cable disconnected at both ends , the inner cable should move freely within the cable housing .
If cable movement is not free after lubricating , if the cable is frayed , or if the cable housing is kinked , replace the cable .
XLR audio cable
Bolts , Nuts and Fasteners Tightness Inspection
Check the tightness of the bolts and nuts listed here .
Also , check to see that each cotter pin is in place and in good condition .
For the engine fasteners , check the tightness of them when the engine is cold ( at room temperature ) .
If there are loose fasteners , retighten them to the specified torque following the specified tightening sequence .
Refer to the appropriate chapter for torque specifications .
If torque specifications are not in the appropriate chapter , see the Standard Torque Table .
For each fastener , first loosen it by 1 / 2 turn , then tighten it .
If cotter pins are damaged , replace them with new ones .
Bolt , Nut and Fastener to be checked
RCA digital cable
Engine :
Clutch Lever Pivot Nut
Muffler Body Mounting Bolts
Wheels :
Rear Axle Nut Cotter Pin
Brakes :
Brake Lever Pivot Nut
Brake Rod Joint Cotter Pin
Caliper Mounting Bolts
Steering :
BNC digital cable
Others :
Front Fender Bolts
Air Cleaner Element Replacement
Refer to the Air Cleaner Element Cleaning .
Fuel Hose Replacement
When removing and installing the fuel hose joint , do not apply strong force to the outlet pipe on the fuel pump and delivery pipe on the throttle body assy .
The pipes made from resin could be damaged .
Remove the fuel tank ( see Fuel Tank Removal in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Be sure to place a piece of cloth around the fuel hose joint .
Insert a minus screw driver into the slit on the joint lock .
Transfer Unit Fingers .
Speaker cable
Turn the driver to disconnect the joint lock .
Pull the fuel hose joint [ D ] out of the delivery pipe .
Be prepared for fuel spillage ; any spilled fuel must be completely wiped up immediately .
When the fuel hose is disconnected , fuel spills out from the hose and the pipe .
Cover the hose connection with a clean shop towel to prevent fuel spillage .
Insert the fuel hose joint straight onto the delivery pipe until the hose joint clicks .
Push the joint lock [ D ] .
Push and pull the fuel hose joint back and forth more than two times and ensure it is locked and doesn ' t come off .
ensure the fuel hose joint is installed correctly on the delivery pipe or the fuel could leak .
If it comes off , reinstall the hose joint .
[ A ] Digital audio output terminals
Run the fuel hose correctly ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Start the engine and check the fuel hose for leaks .
To avoid burns , do not remove the radiator cap or try to change the coolant when the engine is still hot .
Coolant on tires will make them slippery and can cause an accident and injury .
Immediately wipe up or wash away any coolant that spills on the frame , engine , or other painted parts .
Since coolant is harmful to the human body , do not use for drinking .
Right Center Fairing ( see Center Fairing Removal in the Frame chapter )
Right Frame Cover ( see Frame Cover Removal in the Frame chapter )
Lower Fairing ( see Lower Fairing Removal in the Frame chapter )
Reserve Tank Bolts
These terminals output digital audio .
Put the projection on the reserve tank into the hole on the frame bracket , and place the reserve tank on the right side of frame .
Place a container under the water pump drain bolt , then remove the drain bolt .
First turn the cap counterclockwise to the first stop .
Then push and turn it further in the same direction and remove the cap .
The coolant will drain from the radiator and engine .
Place the reserve tank on the right side of frame .
Tighten the drain bolt with the gasket .
Replace the drain bolt gasket with a new one .
When filling the coolant , choose a suitable mixture ratio by referring to the coolant manufacturer ' s directions .
If hard water is used in the system , it causes scales accumulation in the water passages , and considerably reduces the efficiency of the cooling system .
Connect these terminals to the corresponding terminals on the D / A converter ( D-05 , etc . ) .
Water and Coolant Mixture Ratio ( Recommended )
Soft Water :
Freezing Point :
Total Amount :
Fill the radiator up to the filler neck with coolant .
Tap the radiator hoses to force any air bubbles caught inside .
Fill the reserve tank up to the “ F ” ( full ) level line with coolant and install the cap .
Start the engine , warm it up thoroughly until the radiator fan turns on and then stop the engine .
Check the coolant level in the reserve tank after the engine cools down .
Use commercially available cables for the following connections .
If the coolant level is lower than the “ L ” level line , add coolant to the “ F ” level line .
Do not add more coolant above the “ F ” level line .
Radiator Hose and O-ring Replacement
Thermostat Housing ( see Water Pump Removal in the Cooling System chapter )
Water Pump Cover ( see Water Pump Removal in the Cooling System chapter )
Hoses
O-rings [ D ]
Apply grease to the new O-rings and install them .
Instal the new hoses and tighten the clamps securely .
Engine Oil Change
XLR : Use a balanced XLR digital audio cable
Situate the motorcycle so that it is vertical after warming up the engine .
Unscrew the oil filler plug .
Place on oil pan beneath the engine .
Remove the engine oil drain bolt to drain the oil .
The oil in the oil filter can be drained by removing the filter ( see Oil Filter Replacement ) .
Tighten the drain bolt .
Pour in the specified type and amount of oil .
Check the oil level ( see Oil Level Inspection in the Engine Lubrication System chapter ) .
Oil Filter Replacement
Drain the engine oil ( see Engine Oil Change ) .
RCA : Use an RCA coaxial digital cable
Remove the oil filter with the oil filter wrench .
Replace the filter with a new one .
Apply engine oil to the gasket before installation .
Tighten the filter with the oil filter wrench .
Hand tightening of the oil filter can not be allowed since it does not reach to this tightening torque .
Pour in the specified type and amount of oil ( see Engine Oil Change ) .
Brake Hose and Pipe Replacement
Brake fluid quickly ruins painted plastic surfaces ; any spilled fluid should be completely washed away immediately .
Remove the banjo bolts .
When removing the brake hose , take care not to spill the brake fluid on the painted or plastic parts .
i . LINK ( Audio S400 ) : Use S400 compatible 6-pin or 4-pin i . LINK cable ( IEEE 1394 cable )
When removing the brake hoses , temporarily secure the end of the brake hose to some high place to keep fluid loss to a minimum .
Immediately wash away any brake fluid that spills .
Front Fender ( see Front Fender Removal in the Frame chapter )
Air Cleaner Housing ( see Air Cleaner Housing Removal in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter )
There are washers on each side of the brake hose fitting .
Replace them with new ones when installing .
When installing the hoses , avoid sharp bending , kinking , flatting or twisting , and route the hoses according to Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter .
Fill the brake line after installing the brake hose ( see Brake Fluid Change ) .
Brake Fluid Change
The procedure to change the front brake fluid is as follows .
Select digital output depending on what terminals are connected ( see pages 14-15 ) .
Changing the rear brake fluid is the same as for the front brake .
Level the brake fluid reservoir .
Remove the reservoir cap and diaphragm .
Remove the rubber cap from the bleed valve on the caliper .
Attach a clear plastic hose to the bleed valve , and run the other end of the hose into a container .
Fill the reservoir with fresh specified brake fluid .
Change the brake fluid .
Repeat this operation until fresh brake fluid comes out from the plastic hose or the color of the fluid changes .
Apply the brake and hold it .
Close the bleed valve .
Output of digital audio from a Super Audio CD requires a D / A converter compliant with Esoteric ES ‧ LINK ( D-05 / D-03 / D-01 ) or a D / A converter with an i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal .
Release the brake [ D ] .
The fluid level must be checked often during the changing operation and replenished with fresh brake fluid .
If the fluid in the reservoir runs out any time during the changing operation , the brakes will need to be bled since air will have entered the brake line .
Repeat the above steps for the other caliper .
Remove the clear plastic hose .
Install the diaphragm and reservoir cap .
Tighten the bleed valve , and install the rubber cap .
After changing the fluid , check the brake for good braking power , no brake drag , and no fluid leakage .
If necessary , bleed the air from the lines .
Master Cylinder Rubber Parts Replacement
Check for wear or damage
* If your D / A converter supports ES-LINK or Dual AES , connect the XLR1 ( L ) terminal on this unit to the left XLR terminal of the D / A converter and the XLR2 ( R ) terminal on this unit to the right XLR terminal of the D / A converter .
Front Master Cylinder Disassembly
Remove the front master cylinder ( see Front Master Cylinder Removal in the Brakes chapter ) .
Remove the reservoir cap and diaphragm , and pour the brake fluid into a container .
Unscrew the locknut and pivot bolt , and remove the brake lever .
Pull the dust cover out of place , and remove the circlip .
Pull out the piston , secondary cup [ D ] , primary cup [ E ] , and return spring [ F ] .
Do not remove the secondary cup from the piston since removal will damage it .
Rear Master Cylinder Disassembly
Do not remove the push rod clevis for master cylinder disassembly since removal reguires brake position adjustment .
Remove the rear master cylinder ( see Rear Master Cylinder Removal in the Brakes chapter ) .
* The i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal is a combined input and output cable interface .
Slide the dust cover on the push rod out of place , and remove the circlip .
Pull out the push rod with the piston stop .
Take off the piston , secondary cup , primary cup and return spring [ D ] .
Master Cylinder Assembly
Before assembly , clean all parts including the master cylinder with brake fluid or alcohol .
Except for the disc pads and disc , use only disc brake fluid , isopropyl alcohol , or ethyl alcohol for cleaning brake parts .
Do not use any other fluid for cleaning these parts .
Gasoline , engine oil , or any other petroleum distillate will cause deterioration of the rubber parts .
Oil spilled on any part will be difficult to wash off completely , and will eventually deteriorate the rubber used in the disc brake .
Apply brake fluid to the new parts and to the inner wall of the cylinder .
You don ’ t need to be concerned with distinguishing between inputs and outputs .
Take care not to scratch the piston or the inner wall of the cylinder .
Tighten the brake lever pivot bolt and locknut .
Apply silicone grease .
Caliper Rubber Parts Replacement
Front Caliper Disassembly
Front Caliper ( see Front Caliper Removal in the Brakes chapter )
Brake Pads ( see Front Brake Pad Removal in the Brakes chapter )
Using compressed air , remove the pistons .
Cover the piston area with a clean , thick cloth .
Blow compressed air into the hole for the banjo bolt to remove the piston .
* The i . LINK terminals are equipped with 6-pin and 4-pin connectors .
To avoid serious injury , never place your fingers or palm in front of the piston .
If you apply compressed air into the caliper , the piston may crush your hand or fingers .
Pull out the pistons by hand .
Remove the dust seals and fluid seals .
Remove the bleed valve and rubber cap [ D ] .
If compressed air is not available , with the brake hose still attached , apply the brake lever to remove the piston .
The remaining process is as described above .
Front Caliper Assembly
Clean the caliper parts except for the pads .
For cleaning the parts , use only disc brake fluid , isopropyl alcohol , or ethyl alcohol .
Use whichever fits the cable being connected to .
Install the bleed valve and rubber cap .
Replace the fluid seals with new ones .
Apply brake fluid to the fluid seals , and install them into the cylinders by hand .
Replace the dust seals with new ones if they are damaged .
Apply brake fluid to the dust seals , and install them into the cylinders by hand .
Apply brake fluid to the outside of the pistons , and push them into each cylinder by hand .
Check the shaft rubber friction boot and the dust cover replace them with new ones if they are damaged .
Apply a thin coat of PBC ( Poly Butyl Cuprysil ) grease to the caliper holder shafts and holder holes [ D ] ( PBC is a special high-temperature , water-resistance grease ) .
Install the anti-rattle spring .
Install the pads ( see Front Brake Pad Installation in the Brakes chapter ) .
When connecting multiple devices via i . LINK cable , use both terminals .
Wipe up any spilled brake fluid on the caliper with wet cloth .
Rear Caliper Disassembly
Remove the rear caliper ( see Rear Caliper Removal in the Brakes chapter ) .
Remove the pads and anti-rattle spring ( see Rear Brake Pad Removal in the Brakes chapter ) .
Using compressed air , remove the piston .
To avoid serious injury , never place your fingers or palm inside the caliper opening .
Remove the dust seal and fluid seal .
Remove the bleed valve and rubber cap .
If compressed air is not available , with the brake hose still attached , apply the brake pedal to remove the piston .
Rear Caliper Assembly
( Refer to page 24 regarding i . LINK cable connections . )
For cleaning of the parts , use only disc brake fluid , isopropyl alcohol , or ethyl alcohol .
Replace the fluid seal with a new one .
Apply brake fluid to the fluid seal , and install it into the cylinder by hand .
Replace the dust seal with a new one if it is damaged .
Apply brake fluid to the dust seal , and install it into the cylinder by hand .
Apply brake fluid to the outside of the piston , and push it into the cylinder by hand .
Replace the shaft rubber friction boot and dust cover if they are damaged .
Install the anti-rattle spring in the caliper as shown .
Install the pads ( see Rear Brake Pad Installation in the Brakes chapter ) .
Spark Plug Replacement
* You need to use the i . LINK connection when you play multi-channel sound from a Super Audio CD without mixing it down to stereo .
Stick Coils ( see Stick Coil ( Ignition Coil together with Spark Plug Cap ) Removal in the Electrical System chapter )
Remove the spark plugs using the 16 mm plug wrench .
Owner ' s Tool
Spark Plug Wrench , 16 mm :
Insert the spark plug vertically into the plug hole with the spark plug installed in the plug wrench .
Exploded View
No .
Injectors
Throttle Body Assy
First , connect the i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal on the P-05 to the D-05 i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal .
Throttle Cable ( Accelerator )
Throttle Cable ( Decelerator )
Apply cable lubricant .
Apply grease .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent .
FT ( Electronic Control Unit )
DFI System
Injector
Then connect the other i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal on the D-05 to the next D-05 unit .
Delivery Pipe
Subthrottle Sensor
Subthrottle Valve
Main Throttle Valve
Subthrottle Valve Actuator
Pressure Regulator
Air Cleaner Housing
Air Flow
Fuel Flow
DFI System Wiring Diagram
Transfer Slide Rails .
Daisy chain the three units similarly ( in random order ) .
Radiator Fan Fuse 15 A
Radiator Fan Relay
Battery 12 V 10 Ah
Terminal Names
Subthrottle Valve Actuator Drive Signal 2
Water Temperature Warning Light Signal
Unused
Speed Sensor Signal
Main Throttle Sensor Signal
Inlet Air Pressure Sensor Signal
Connect the word sync terminals as shown in the figure ( in random order ) .
Power Supply to Sensors
Vehicle-down Sensor Signal
Neutral Switch Signal
Crankshaft Sensor ( + ) Signal
Power Supply to FT ( from FT Main Relay )
Power Supply to FT ( from Battery )
Water Temperature Sensor Signal
Subthrottle Sensor Signal
Inlet Air Temperature Sensor Signal
Ground to Sensors
[ B ] Word sync input terminal ( WORD SYNC IN )
Crankshaft Sensor ( - ) Signal
External Diagnosis System Signal
Ground to FT
Engine Stop Switch Signal
Starter Lockout Switch Signal
Starter Button Signal
Fuel Pump Relay Signal
Air Switching Valve Signal
Fuel Injector # 2 Signal
Stick Coil # 1 Signal
This terminal allows the use of an externally generated word clock connection using a commercially available BNC coaxial cable ( 75 ohm ) .
Sidestand Switch Signal
Radiator Fan Relay Signal
External Communication Line ( Mode Switch )
Tachometer Signal
Ground for Fuel System
Ground for ignition System
DFI Parts Location
Relay Box ( FT Main Relay , Fuel Pump Relay , Radiator Fan Relay )
Fuse Box ( FT Fuse 15 A , Oxygen Sensor Heater Fuse 10 A )
Digital Fuel Injection System
Connect the WORD SYNC OUT terminal on a D / A converter or word clock generator to this unit .
Two barrel type
Bore
FT ( Electronic Control Unit ) :
Digital memory type , with built in IC igniter , sealed with resin
Usable Engine Speed
Fuel Pressure ( High Pressure Line ) :
With Engine Idling
323 kPa ( 3.3 kgf / cm ² , 47 psi ) with fuel pump running
Fuel Pump :
In-tank friction pump
[ C ] Power supply GND terminal ( SIGNAL GND )
Discharge
60 mL or more for 3 seconds
Fuel Injectors :
Nozzle Type
One spray type with 12 holes
Resistance
about 11.7 - 12.3 at 20 ° C
Main Throttle Sensor :
Non-adjustable and non-removable
Connecting the ground terminals on the D / A converter and amplifiers to ground may improve the sound quality .
Input Voltage
- 5.25 V DC between BL and BR / BK leads
Output Voltage at Idle Throttle Opening
- 1.077 V DC between Y / W and BR / BK leads
Output Voltage at Full Throttle Opening
16.2 k
Inlet Air Pressure Sensor :
Output Voltage
- 4.20 V DC at standard atmospheric pressure ( see this text for details )
Inlet Air Temperature Sensor :
[ D ] Power cord
- 6.6 k at 0 ° C
Output Voltage at FT
about 2.25 - 2.50 V @ 20 ° C
Water Temperature Sensor :
see Electrical System chapter
Speed Sensor :
Input Voltage at Sensor
about 9 - 11 V DC at Ignition Switch ON
Output Voltage at Sensor
Vehicle-down Sensor :
Connect the power cord to the power cord receptacle and connect the power plug to a AC wall outlet when all other connections have been made .
Detection Method
Magnetic flux detection method
Detection Angle
more than 60 - 70 ° for each bank
with the sensor tilted 60 - 70 ° or more :
with sensor arrow mark pointed up :
Subthrottle Sensor :
Non-adjustable and non-removal
- 0.6 V DC between BL / W and BR / BK leads
Subthrottle Valve Actuator :
Front panel features
about 5.5 - 7.5
about 8.5 - 10.5 V DC
Output Voltage ( Rich )
12.8 V or more
Output Voltage ( Lean )
0.15 mm or less
Heater Resistance
- 22 Ω at 20 ° C
Throttle Grip and Cables
Special Tools and Sealant
Transfer Guides & Rollers .
Oil Pressure Gauge , 10 kgf / cm ² :
Kawasaki Bond ( Silicone Sealant ) :
DFI Servicing Precautions
There are a number of important precautions that should be followed servicing the DFI system .
This DFI system is designed to be used with a 12 V sealed battery as its power source .
Do not use any other battery except for a 12 V sealed battery as a power source .
Do not reverse the battery cable connections .
This will damage the FT .
To prevent damage to the DFI parts , do not disconnect the battery cables or any other electrical connections when the ignition switch is on or while the engine is running .
Take care not to short the cables that are directly connected to the battery positive ( + ) terminal to the chassis ground .
Turn power on and off .
When charging , remove the battery from the motorcycle .
This is to prevent FT damage by excessive voltage .
Do not turn the ignition switch ON while any of the DFI electrical connectors are disconnected .
The FT memorizes service codes .
Do not spray water on the electrical parts , DFI parts , connectors , leads , and wiring .
Whenever the DFI electrical connections are to be disconnected , first turn off the ignition switch , and disconnect the battery ( - ) terminal .
Do not pull the lead , only the connector .
Conversely , ensure that all the DFI electrical connections are firmly reconnected before starting the engine .
Connect these connectors until they click
If a transceiver is installed on the motorcycle , ensure that the operation of the DFI system is not influenced by electric wave radiated from the antenna .
The ring surrounding the button lights when the unit is on .
Check operation of the system with the engine at idle .
Locate the antenna as far as possible away from the FT .
When any fuel hose is disconnected , fuel may spout out by residual pressure in the fuel line .
Cover the hose joint with a piece of clean cloth to prevent fuel spillage .
When any fuel hose is disconnected , do not turn on the ignition switch .
Otherwise , the fuel pump will operate and fuel will spout from the fuel hose .
Do not operate the fuel pump if the pump is completely dry .
This is to prevent pump seizure .
Before removing the fuel system parts , blow the outer surfaces of these parts clean with compressed air .
To prevent corrosion and deposits in the fuel system , do not add to fuel any fuel antifreeze chemicals .
[ B ] Disc tray
To maintain the correct fuel / air mixture ( F / A ) , there must be no inlet air leaks in the DFI system .
Be sure to install the oil filler plug after filling the engine oil .
Troubleshooting the DFI System
Outline
When an abnormality in the system occurs , the FI indicator LED ( Light Emitting Diode ) light goes on to alert the rider on the meter panel .
In addition , the condition of the problem is stored in the memory of the FT ( electronic control unit ) .
With the engine stopped and turned in the self-diagnosis mode , the service code is indicated by the number of times the FI indicator LED light blinks .
When due to a malfunction , the FI indicator LED light remains lit , ask the rider about the conditions under which the problem occurred and try to determine the cause .
First , conduct a self-diagnosis inspection and then a non-self-diagnosis inspection .
The non-self-diagnosis items are not indicated by the FI indicator LED light .
Don ' t rely solely on the DFI self-diagnosis function , use common sense .
Even when the DFI system is operating normally , the FI indicator LED light may light up under strong electrical interference .
No repair needed .
Turn the ignition switch OFF to stop the indicator light .
When the FI indicator LED light goes on and the motorcycle is brought in for repair , check the service codes .
When the repair has been done , the LED light doesn ' t go on .
But the service codes stored in memory are not erased to preserve the problem history , and the LED light can display the codes in the self-diagnosis mode .
The problem history is referred when solving unstable problems .
When the motorcycle is down , the vehicle-down sensor is turned OFF and the FT shuts off the fuel injectors and ignition system .
The FI indicator LED light blinks but the service code cannot be displayed .
Use these buttons to skip forward or backward .
The ignition switch is left ON .
If the starter button is pushed , the electric starter turns but the engine doesn ' t start .
To start the engine again , raise the motorcycle , turn the ignition switch OFF , and then ON .
The vehicle-down sensor is turned ON and the LED light goes OFF .
The DFI part connectors have seals , including the FT .
Join the connector and insert the needle adapters inside the seals from behind the connector until the adapter reaches the terminal .
Insert the needle adapter straight along the terminal in the connector to prevent short-circuit between terminals .
ensure that measuring points are correct in the connector , noting the position of the lock [ D ] and the lead color before measurement .
Do not reverse connections of the hand tester or a digital meter .
Be careful not to short-circuit the leads of the DFI or electrical system parts by contact between adapters .
Hold down the buttons 1 second or more to change scanning speed .
Turn the ignition switch ON and measure the voltage with the connector joined .
Incorrect , reverse connection or short circuit by needle adapters could damage the DFI or electrical system parts .
After measurement , remove the needle adapters and apply silicone sealant to the seals of the connector for waterproofing .
Sealant
Always check battery condition before replacing the DFI parts .
A fully charged battery is a must for conducting accurate tests of the DFI system .
Trouble may involve one or in some cases all items .
Never replace a defective part without determining what CAUSED the problem .
If the problem was caused by some other item or items , they too must be repaired or replaced , or the new replacement part will soon fail again .
Measure coil winding resistance when the DFI part is cold ( at room temperature ) .
ensure all connectors in the circuit are clean and tight , and examine wires for signs of burning , fraying , short , etc . Deteriorated wires and bad connections can cause reappearance of problems and unstable operation of the DFI system .
If any wiring is deteriorated , replace the wiring .
Pull each connector apart and inspect it for corrosion , dirt , and damage .
If the connector is corroded or dirty , clean it carefully .
If it is damaged , replace it .
Connect the connectors securely .
Check the wiring for continuity .
Use the wiring diagram to find the ends of the lead which is suspected of being a problem .
Connect the hand tester between the ends of the leads .
Set the tester to the 1 Ω range , and read the tester .
Press to pause playback .
If the tester does not read 0 Ω , the lead is defective .
Replace the lead or the main harness or the sub harness .
If both ends of a harness are far apart , ground the one end , using a jumper lead [ D ] and check the continuity between the end [ E ] and the ground [ F ] .
This enables to check a long harness for continuity .
If the harness is open , repair or replace the harness .
When checking a harness for short circuit , open one end and check the continuity between the other end and ground [ D ] .
If there is continuity , the harness has a short circuit to ground , and it must be repaired or replaced .
Narrow down suspicious locations by repeating the continuity tests from the FT connectors .
If no abnormality is found in the wiring or connectors , the DFI parts are the next likely suspects .
Check the part , starting with input and output voltages .
If the obstruction is detected when the shift lever is in any other position than P , or the vehicle speed exceeds 1,2 mph ( 2 km / h ) , the tailgate stops moving immediately .
However , there is no way to check the FT itself .
If an abnormality is found , replace the affected DFI part .
If no abnormality is found in the wiring , connectors , and DFI parts , replace the fault-teller .
Lead Color Codes :
Dark Green
Rollers and guides for wear or damage
Fall-down Detection Function
There are two ways to inspect the DFI system .
One is voltage Check Method and the other is Resistance Check Method .
( Voltage Check Method )
This function prevents the tailgate from suddenly falling down because of an accumulation of snow , or other causes .
This method is conducted by measuring the input voltage to a sensor first , and then the output voltage from the sensor .
Sometimes this method can detect a fault of the FT .
Refer to each sensor inspection section for detail in this chapter .
Use a fully charged battery and a digital meter [ D ] which can be read two decimal places voltage or resistance .
( Resistance Check Method )
This method is simple .
No need for a fully charged battery and the needle adapter .
Just do the following especially when a sensor is suspect .
Turn the ignition switch OFF and disconnect the connectors .
Inspect the sensor resistance , using a digital meter ( see each sensor inspection in this chapter ) .
If the pulser in the drive unit detects abnormal pulses , the tailgate starts to open .
Inspect the wiring and connectors for continuity , using the hand tester ( analog tester ) rather than a digital meter .
If the sensor , the wiring and connections are good , inspect the FT for its ground and power supply ( see this chapter ) .
If the ground and power supply are good , the FT is suspect .
DFI Diagnosis Flow Chart
Inquiries to Rider
Each rider reacts to problems in different ways , so it is important to confirm what kind of symptoms the rider has encountered .
Try to find out exactly what problem occurred under exactly what conditions by asking the rider ; knowing this information may help you reproduce the problem .
The following sample diagnosis sheet will help prevent you from overlooking any areas , and will help you decide if it is a DFI system problem , or a general engine problem .
Sample Diagnosis Sheet
Rider name :
Registration No . ( license plate No . ) :
Year of initial registration :
Model :
Engine No . :
Frame No . :
Date problem occurred :
Mileage :
Environment when problem occurred .
Weather
fine , cloudy , rain , snow , always , other :
Press to start playback .
hot , warm , cold , very cold , always
Problem frequency
chronic , often , once
Road
street , highway , mountain road ( uphill , downhill ) , bumpy , pebble
normal , high ( about 1,000 m or more )
Motorcycle conditions when problem occurred .
FI indicator light ( LED )
light up immediately after ignition switch ON , and goes off after 1 - 2 seconds ( normal )
lights blinks immediately after ignition switch ON , and stays on ( DFI problem )
lights up immediately after ignition switch ON , but goes off after about 10 seconds ( DFI problem )
unlights ( light ( LED ) , FT or its wiring fault )
sometimes lights up ( probably wiring fault )
Starting difficulty
starter motor not rotating
starter motor rotating but engine doesn ' t turn over
starter motor and engine don ' t turn over
no fuel flow ( no fuel in tank , no fuel pump sound )
engine flooded ( do not crank engine with throttle opened , which promotes engine flooding )
no spark
Press to stop playback .
other
Engine stops
right after starting
when opening throttle grip
when closing throttle grip
when moving off
when stopping the motorcycle
when cruising
Poor running at low speed
very low idle speed , very high idle speed , rough idle speed
[ H ] Display
battery voltage is low ( charge the battery )
spark plug loose ( tighten it )
spark plug dirty , broken , or gap maladjusted ( remedy it )
backfiring
afterfiring
hesitation when acceleration
engine oil viscosity too high
brake dragging
engine overheating
clutch slipping
[ I ] Remote control sensor
Poor running or no power at high speed
spark plug incorrect ( replace it )
knocking ( fuel poor quality or incorrect , : use high-octane gasoline )
engine oil level too high
DFI System Troubleshooting Guide
This is not an exhaustive list , giving every possible cause for each problem listed .
It is meant simply as a rough guide to assist the troubleshooting for some of the more common difficulties .
The FT may be involved in the DFI electrical and ignition system troubles .
If these parts and circuits are checked out good , be sure to check the FT for ground and power supply .
If the ground and power supply are checked good , replace the fault-teller .
Receives signals from the remote control unit .
Engine Doesn ' t Start , Starting Difficulty
Symptoms or possible Causes
Actions ( chapter )
Starter motor not rotating :
Ignition and engine stop switches not ON
Turn both switches ON .
Starter lockout switch or neutral switch trouble
Inspect ( see chapter 16 ) .
Starter motor trouble
Battery voltage low
Transfer Switches .
Point the remote control at this sensor when using the remote control .
Inspect and charge ( see chapter 16 ) .
Starter relays not contacting or operating
Inspect the starter relay ( see chapter 16 ) .
Starter button not contacting
Inspect and replace ( see chapter 16 ) .
Starter system wiring open or shorted
Inspect the wiring ( see chapter 16 ) .
Ignition switch trouble
Engine stop switch trouble
Inspect and repair or replace ( see chapter 16 ) .
[ J ] MENU button
Main 30A or ignition fuse blown
Starter motor rotating but engine doesn ' t turn over :
Starter clutch trouble
Starter idle gear trouble
Engine won ' t turn over :
Valve seizure
Cylinder , piston seizure
Camshaft seizure
Connecting rod small end seizure
Connecting rod big end seizure
Use this button to change following settings : Word sync , DAC mode , layer , i . LINK
Crankshaft seizure
Transmission gear or bearing seizure
Balancer bearing seizure
No fuel flow :
No or little fuel in tank
Supply fuel ( see Owner ' s Manual ) .
Fuel pump not rotating
Fuel injector trouble
Inspect and repair ( see chapter 3 ) .
Fuel filter or pump screen clogged
Inspect and replace fuel pump ( see chapter 3 ) .
Fuel pressure regulator clogged
Engine flooded :
Spark plug dirty , broken or gap maladjusted
Replace ( see chapter 2 ) .
When flooded , don ' t crank engine with throttle fully opened .
No spark or spark weak :
Clutch lever not pulled in and gear not in neutral whether sidestand up or not
Pull the lever in and shift the gear in neutral .
Though clutch lever pulled in , sidestand up and gear not in neutral
Turn the word sync function on and off .
Sidestand down and clutch lever pulled in whether gear in neutral or not
Vehicle-down-sensor coming off
Reinstall ( see chapter 3 ) .
Vehicle-down-sensor trouble
FT ground or power supply trouble
Stick coil trouble
Inspect stick coil ( see chapter 16 ) .
Stick coil shorted or not in good contact
Reinstall or inspect stick coil ( see chapter 16 ) .
Spark plug incorrect
When on , the unit will synchronize with an external word sync source .
Replace it with the correct plug ( see chapter 16 ) .
IC igniter in FT trouble
Neutral , starter lockout or sidestand switch trouble
Inspect each switch ( see chapter 16 ) .
Crankshaft sensor trouble
Ignition switch shorted
Engine stop switch shorted
Starter system wiring shorted or open
Fuel / air mixture incorrect :
Air cleaner clogged , poorly sealed or missing
Front panel features ( Display )
Clean or reinstall ( see chapter 3 ) .
Leak from oil filler cap , crankcase breather hose or air cleaner drain hose
Water or foreign matter in fuel
Change fuel .
Inspect and clean fuel system ( see chapter 3 ) .
Fuel pressure regulator trouble
Inspect fuel pressure and replace fuel pump ( see chapter 3 ) .
Main throttle sensor trouble
Fuel pressure may be low
Fuel pump trouble
[ a ] Disc type indicator
Inlet air pressure sensor trouble
Inlet air temperature sensor trouble
Water temperature sensor trouble
Compression low :
Cylinder head not sufficiently tightened down
Tighten ( see chapter 5 ) .
Cylinder , piston worn
Piston ring bad ( worn , weak , broken or sticking )
Piston ring / groove clearance excessive
Adjust ( see chapter 2 ) .
Indicates the disc type of loaded disc ( Super Audio CD or CD ) .
Valve not seating properly ( valve bent , worn or carbon accumulating on seating surface )
Poor Running at Low Speed
Symptoms or Possible Causes
Spark weak :
Inspect the stick coil ( see chapter 16 ) .
Little fuel in tank
Air cleaner clogged , poorly sealed , or missing
Clean element or inspect sealing ( see chapter 2 , 3 ) .
Throttle body assy loose
Throttle body assy O-ring damage
[ b ] REPEAT indicator
Thermostat trouble
Unstable ( rough ) idling :
Throttle valves not synchronizing
Fuel pressure too low or too high
Incorrect idle speed :
Engine stalls easily :
Compression Low :
Valve guide worn or stem seal damaged
Camshaft cam worn
Hesitation :
Position and operation of sensors
Lights when repeat play is selected .
Fuel pressure too low
Clogged fuel line in
Clogged fuel line
Cracked or obstructed inlet air pressure sensor hose
Subthrottle sensor trouble
Subthrottle valve actuator trouble
Loose injector connectors
Remedy ( see chapter 3 ) .
Loose terminal of battery ( - ) cable or FT ground lead
Delay of ignition timing
[ c ] Message area
Inspect crankshaft sensor and IC igniter in FT ( see chapter 16 ) .
Poor acceleration :
Clogged fuel filter or pump screen
Engine oil level to high
Repair ( see chapter 7 ) .
Stumble :
Main throttle sensor malfunction
Surge :
Unstable fuel pressure
Fuel pressure regulator trouble ( Inspect and replace fuel pump ) or kinked fuel line ( Inspect and repair fuel line ) ( see chapter 3 ) .
Alphanumeric display that shows playback time , status messages , etc .
Backfiring when deceleration :
Air switching valve broken
Air suction valve trouble
After fire :
Spark plug burned or gap maladjusted
Run-on ( dieseling ) :
Carbon accumulating on valve seating surface
( see Overheating of Troubleshooting Guide , see chapter 17 )
Other :
Change ( see chapter 2 ) .
[ d ] DOWN MIX indicator
Drive train trouble
Inspect drive chain ( see chapter 2 ) and sprocket ( see chapter 11 ) .
Inspect caliper fluid seal damage or clogging of master cylinder relief and supply ports ( see chapter 12 ) .
Inspect friction plates for wear ( see chapter 6 ) .
Air switching valve trouble
Intermittent any DFI fault and its recovery
Check that DFI connectors are clean and tight , and examine wires for signs of burning or fraying ( see chapter 3 ) .
Poor Running or No Power at High Speed :
Firing incorrect :
Spark plug dirty , broken or maladjusted
Lights to show that a multi-channel source has been downmixed .
Clean element or inspect sealing ( see chapter 3 ) .
Throttle body assy O-ring damaged
Fuel pump operates intermittently and often DFI fuse blows .
Pump bearings may wear .
Replace the pump ( see chapter 3 ) .
Injector clogged
Visually inspect and replace ( see chapter 3 ) .
Valve not seating properly ( valve bent , worn or carbon accumulating on the seating surface )
Knocking :
Fuel poor quality or incorrect ( Use the gasoline recommended in the Owner ' s Manual )
[ e ] MULTI indicator
Change fuel ( see chapter 3 ) .
Miscellaneous :
Speed sensor trouble
Throttle valves won ' t fully open
Inspect throttle cable and lever linkage ( see chapter 3 ) .
Engine overheating - Water temperature sensor , crankshaft sensor or speed sensor trouble
( see Overheating of Troubleshooting Guide in chapter 17 ) .
Inspect drive chain ( see chapter 2 ) and sprockets ( see chapter 11 ) .
Catalytic converters melt down due to muffler overheating
Replace muffler ( see chapter 5 ) .
Lights when the audio output setting is set to ” Multi ch ” .
Exhaust Smokes Excessively :
( White smokes )
Replace the guide ( see chapter 5 ) .
( Black smoke )
Air cleaner clogged
Clean ( see chapter 3 ) .
Too high fuel pressure
Injector stuck open
( Brown smoke )
Inspect fuel line and fuel pump ( see chapter 3 ) .
[ f ] Channel indicators
Self-Diagnosis
Self-diagnosis Outline
The self-diagnosis system has three modes and can be switched to another mode by grounding the self-diagnosis terminal .
User Mode
The FT notifies the rider of troubles in DFI system and ignition system by lighting the FI indicator when DFI system and ignition system parts are faulty , and initiates fail-safe function .
In case of serious troubles , the FT stops the injection / ignition / starter motor operation .
Dealer Mode 1
The FI indicator light ( LED ) emits service code ( s ) to show the problem ( s ) which the DFI system , and ignition system has at the moment of diagnosis .
The FI indicator light ( LED ) emits service code ( s ) to show the problem ( s ) which the DFI system , and ignition system had in the past .
Self-diagnosis Procedures
Light to show which surround channels are currently in use .
When a problem occurs with the DFI system and ignition system , the DFI indicator light ( LED ) goes on .
Use a fully charged battery when conducting self-diagnosis .
Otherwise , the light ( LED ) blinks very slowly or doesn ' t blink .
Keep the self-diagnosis terminal grounded during self-diagnosis , with an auxiliary lead .
Ground the self-diagnosis terminal ( Orange / Black lead ) to the battery ( - ) terminal or battery ( - ) lead connector , using a wire .
Connect an auxiliary lead [ E ] to the self-diagnosis terminal [ G ] for grounding .
To enter the self-diagnosis dealer mode 1 , ground the self-diagnosis indicator terminal to the battery ( - ) terminal for more than 2 seconds , and then keep it grounded continuously [ D ] .
Count the blinks of the light ( LED ) to read the service code .
Keep the auxiliary lead ground until you finish reading the service code .
To enter the self-diagnosis dealer mode 2 , open and ground the lead more than five times [ F ] within 2 seconds after the lead is first grounded , and then keep it grounded continuously [ D ] for more than 2 seconds .
[ g ] i . LINK indicator
Auxiliary Lead [ E ]
Self-diagnosis Terminal [ G ]
To enter the dealer mode 2 from the dealer mode 1 , turn off the ignition switch once .
Service Code Clearing Procedures
Enter the self-diagnosis dealer mode 2 ( see Self-diagnosis Procedures in this chapter ) .
ensure to keep the grounding until the following opening and grounding starts .
Pull the clutch lever in more than 5 seconds , and then release it .
Repeat opening and grounding the lead ( self-diagnosis terminal ) more than five times [ F ] within 2 seconds after the lead is grounded , and then keep it grounded continuously [ D ] for more than 2 seconds .
How to Read Service Codes
Service codes are shown by a series of long and short blinks of the FI indicator light ( LED ) as shown below .
Why have you bought more stuff than we need ?
Block Lift Unit Hyd Cyl .
Lights when the i . LINK output is set to ” ON ” .
Read 10th digit and unit digit as the FI indicator light ( LED ) blinks .
When there are a number of problems , all the service codes can be stored and the display will begin starting from the lowest number service code in the numerical order .
Then after completing all codes , the display is repeated until the self-diagnosis indicator terminal is open .
If there is no problem , no code and unlight .
For example , if two problems occurred in the order of 21 , 12 , the service codes are displayed from the lowest number in the order listed .
→ 21 ) : ( 12 : 21 ) : · · · ( repeated )
If the problem is with the following parts , the FT cannot memorize these problems , the FI indicator light ( LED ) doesn ' t go on , and no service codes can be displayed .
FT Power Source Wiring and Ground Wiring ( see FT Inspection )
How to Erase Service Codes
Even if the ignition switch is turned OFF , the battery or the FT are disconnected or the problem is solved , all service codes remain in the FT .
Understanding the remote control unit
Refer to the Service Code Clearing Procedure for the service code erasure .
Service Code Table
Service Code
Problems
Main throttle sensor malfunction , wiring open or short
Inlet air pressure sensor malfunction , wiring open or short
Inlet air temperature sensor malfunction , wiring open or short
Water temperature sensor malfunction , wiring open or short
Crankshaft sensor malfunction , wiring open or short
and
Speed sensor malfunction , wiring open or short
First 24 is displayed and then 25 , repeatedly
Vehicle-down sensor , malfunction , wiring open or short
Subthrottle sensor malfunction , wiring open or short
Oxygen sensor inactivation , wiring open or short ( Europe Model )
Stick ( Ignition ) coil # 1 malfunction , wiring open or short
Radiator fan relay malfunction , wiring open or short
Subthrottle valve actuator malfunction , wiring open or short
Air switching valve malfunction , wiring open or short
Oxygen sensor heater malfunction , wiring open or short ( Europe Model )
This button does not work on the P-05 .
Oxygen sensor malfunction , wiring open or short ( Europe Model )
Notes :
The FT may be involved in these problems .
If all the parts and circuits checked out good , be sure to check the FT for ground and power supply .
When no service code is displayed , the electrical parts of the DFI system has no fault , and the mechanical parts of the DFI system and the engine are suspect .
Backups
The FT takes the following measures to prevent engine damage when the DFI or the ignition system parts have troubles .
Service Codes
Output Signal Usable Range or Criteria
Backups by FT
It switches between ON and STANBY modes on Esoteric devices equipped with the STANDBY function .
If the main throttle sensor system fails ( the signal is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the FT locks ignition timing into the ignition timing at closed throttle position and sets the DFI in the D-J method .
Also , the main throttle sensor system and inlet air pressure fails , the FT locks ignition timing into the ignition timing at closed throttle position and sets the DFI in the α -N method .
Inlet Air Pressure ( absolute )
If the inlet air pressure sensor system fails ( the signal Pv is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the FT sets the DFI in the α - N method .
Inlet Air Temperature
Ta = -30 ° C - + 120 ° C
If the inlet air temperature sensor fails ( the signal is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the FT sets Ta at 40 ° C .
Water Temperature
Tw = -30C ° - + 120 ° C
[ B ] Number buttons
If the water temperature sensor system fails ( the signal is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the FT sets Tw at 80 ° C .
Crankshaft sensor must send 22 signals ( output signal ) to the FT at the one cranking .
If crankshaft sensor generates other than 22 signals , the engine stops by itself .
Speed sensor must send 4 signals ( output signal ) to the FT at the one rotation of the engine sprocket .
The gear position is decided by the signal of the speed sensor .
If the speed sensor system fails ( no signal , wiring short or open ) , the speedometer shows 0 , and the FT sets the top ( 6 ) gear position .
Vehicle-down Sensor Output Voltage ( signal )
Vd = 0.65 V - 4.45 V
If the vehicle-down sensor system has failures ( the output voltage Vd is more than usable range , wiring open ) , the FT shuts off the fuel pump , the fuel injectors and the ignition system .
Subthrottle Sensor Output Voltage
Enter the track number .
The oxygen sensor is active and sensor must send signals ( output voltage ) continuously to the FT .
If the oxygen sensor is not activated , the FT stops oxygen sensor feedback mode .
Stick Coil # 1 ( Ignition Coil ) *
The stick coil primary winding must send signals ( output voltage ) continuously to the FT .
If the ignition primary winding # 1 has failures ( no signal , wiring short or open ) , the FT shuts off the injector # 1 to stop fuel to the cylinder # 1 , though the engine keeps running .
The actuator operates open and close of the subthrottle valve by the pulse signal from the FT .
If the subthrottle valve actuator fails ( the signal is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the FT stops the current to the actuator .
The oxygen sensor heater raise temperature of the sensor for its earlier activation .
12V-6 . 6W , 0.55 A
If the oxygen sensor heater fails ( wiring short or open ) , the FT stops the current to the heater .
The oxygen sensor must send signals ( output voltage ) continuously to the EUC
If the oxygen sensor output voltage is incorrect , the FT stops oxygen sensor feed back mode .
When the engine load is light like at idling or low speed , the FT determines the injection quantity by calculating from the throttle vacuum ( inlet air pressure sensor output voltage ) and engine speed ( crankshaft sensor output voltage ) .
This method is called D-J method ( low-speed mode ) .
As the engine speed increases , and the engine load turns middle to heavy , the FT determines the injection quantity by calculating from the throttle opening ( throttle sensor output voltage ) and the engine speed .
This method is called α - N method ( high-speed mode ) .
This depends on the number of stopped cylinders .
why spend more in a new car ?
Main Throttle Sensor ( Service Code 11 )
Main Throttle Sensor Removal / Adjustment
When a hybrid Super Audio CD is loaded and the disc is not being played , press this button to change the play area of the disc .
Do not remove or adjust the main throttle sensor since it has been adjusted and set with precision at the factory .
Never drop the throttle body assy , especially on a hard surface .
Such a shock to the sensor can damage it .
Main Throttle Sensor Input Voltage
Be sure the battery is fully charged .
Turn the ignition switch OFF .
Disconnect the main throttle sensor connector and connect the harness adapter between these connectors .
Connect a digital meter to the harness adapter lead .
Meter ( + ) : BL ( sensor BL ) lead
Measure the input voltage with the engine stopped , and with the connectors joined .
Turn the ignition switch ON .
4.75 - 5.25 V DC
If the input voltage is normal , check the sensor output voltage .
If the input voltage is less than the standard , remove the FT and check the wiring between these connectors .
Disconnect the FT and sensor connectors .
Wiring Connection
FT Connector ← →
Main Throttle Sensor Connector
BL lead ( FT terminal 10 )
BR / BK lead ( FT terminal 28 )
Block Lift Unit Rest Pads & Pins
Press to select 2-channel stereo or multi-channel surround audio output .
If the wiring is bad , check the FT for its ground and power supply .
If the ground and power supply are good , replace the fault-teller .
Measure the output voltage at the main throttle sensor in the same way as input voltage inspection .
Check idle speed to ensure the throttle closing is correct .
If the idle speed is out of the specified range , adjust it ( see Idle Speed Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Measure the operating voltage with the engine stopped , and with the connector joined .
4.29 - 4.49 V DC ( at full throttle opening )
If the output voltage is out of the standard , inspect the main throttle sensor resistance .
If the output voltage is normal , check the wiring for continuity .
Y / W lead ( FT terminal 7 )
Main Throttle Sensor Resistance
Disconnect the main throttle sensor connector .
Connect a digital meter to the main throttle sensor connector .
Measure the main throttle sensor resistance .
Connections :
BL lead ← → BR / BK lead [ D ]
10.8 - 16.2 k Ω
If the reading is out of the range , replace the throttle body assy .
If the reading is within the range , but the problem still exists , replace the fault-teller ( see FT Removal ) .
Main Throttle Sensor Circuit
Press to scan forward and backward during playback .
Inlet Air Pressure Sensor ( Service Code 12 )
Never drop the sensor , especially on a hard surface .
Such a shock to the part can damage it .
Remove the center fairing ( see Center Fairing Removal in the Frame chapter ) .
Disconnect the inlet air pressure sensor connector and the vacuum hose .
Pull out the inlet air temperature sensor .
Installation is the reverse of removal .
Inlet Air Pressure Sensor Input Voltage
The inspection is the same as Input Voltage Inspection ” of the main throttle sensor .
Remove the FT ( see FT Removal ) .
Do not disconnect the FT connectors .
Connect a digital voltmeter to the connector with the needle adapter set .
Connections to FT Connector
Meter ( + ) : BL lead ( terminal 10 )
Meter ( - ) : BR / BK lead ( terminal 28 )
Input Voltage at FT
If the reading is within the standard range , check the sensor output voltage .
If the reading is less than the standard range , remove the FT and check the wiring between these connectors .
Inlet Air Pressure Sensor Output Voltage
The output voltage changes according to the local atmospheric pressure .
Measure the output voltage at the FT in the same way as input voltage inspection .
Note the following .
Meter ( + ) : Y / BL lead ( terminal 17 )
Usable Range :
3.74 - 4.26 V DC at the standard atmospheric pressure ( 101.32 kPa , 76 cmHg abs . )
If the output voltage is within the usable range , check the FT for its ground , and power supply ( see FT Power Supply Inspection ) .
If the output voltage is out of the standard , check the wiring .
If the wiring is good , check the sensor for various vacuum .
Remove the inlet air pressure sensor and disconnect the vacuum hose from the sensor .
Connect an auxiliary hose to the inlet air pressure sensor .
Temporarily install the inlet air pressure sensor .
Connect a commercially available digital meter , vacuum gauge [ D ] , the fork oil level gauge [ E ] and the harness adapter to the inlet air pressure sensor .
Fork Oil Level Gauge :
Meter ( + ) : G ( sensor Y / BL ) lead
Meter ( - ) : BK ( sensor BR / BK ) lead
Measure the inlet air pressure sensor output voltage from various vacuum readings , while pulling the handle of the fork oil level gauge .
If the output voltage for various vacuum is normal , check the FT for its ground , and power supply ( see FT Power Supply Inspection ) .
Suppose :
Vacuum Pressure ( gauge ) to Sensor
It can be used with Esoteric D / A converters and amps , etc .
Local Atmospheric Pressure ( absolute ) measured by a barometer
Vacuum Pressure ( absolute ) to Sensor
Sensor Output Voltage ( v )
then
For example , suppose the following data is obtained :
8 cmHg ( Vacuum gauge reading )
70 cmHg ( Varometer reading )
3.2 V ( Digital volt meter reading )
- 8 = 62 cmHg ( Abs )
Plot this Pv ( 62 cmHg ) at a point [ 1 ] on the chart and draw a vertical line through the point .
Then , you can get the usable range [ 2 ] of the sensor output voltage .
Usable range = 3.04 - 3.49 V
Plot Vv ( 3.2 V ) on the vertical line .
→ Point [ 3 ] .
In the chart , Vv is within the usable range and the sensor is normal .
Idling
Standard Atmospheric Pressure ( Absolute )
Throttle Vacuum Pressure ( Absolute )
Press to select one of four brightness levels for the display and indicator lamps .
Standard of Sensor Output Voltage ( v )
Throttle Full Open
Usable Range of Sensor Output Voltage ( v )
Inlet Air Pressure Sensor Output Voltage ( V ) ( Digital Meter Reading )
Inlet Air Pressure Sensor Circuit
Inlet Air Temperature Sensor ( Service Code 13 )
Water Temperature Sensor Removal / Installation
Remove the fuel tank ( see Fuel Tank Removal ) .
Hardened pads & pins for wear or damage
Remove the screw .
Put the inlet air temperature sensor into the air cleaner housing .
Tighten the screw securely .
Inlet Air Temperature Sensor Output Voltage
The output voltage changes according to the inlet air temperature .
Connect a digital voltmeter to the FT connector , using needle adapter set .
Meter ( + ) : Y lead ( terminal 26 )
Measure the sensor output voltage with the engine stopped and the connector joined .
about 2.25 - 2.50 V at inlet air temperature 20 ° C
If the output voltage is within the standard , check the FT for its ground , and power supply ( see FT Power Supply Inspection ) .
Use to enter or exit the setup mode .
Inlet Air Temperature Sensor Resistance
Remove the water temperature sensor ( see Water Temperature Sensor Removal / Installation ) .
Suspend the sensor in a container of machine oil so that the heat-sensitive portion is submerged .
Suspend a thermometer with the heat-sensitive portion located in almost the same depth with the sensor .
The sensor and thermometer must not touch the container side or bottom .
Place the container over a source of heat and gradually raise the temperature of the oil while stirring the oil gently for even temperature .
Using a digital meter , measure the internal resistance of the sensor across the terminals at the temperatures shown in the table .
5.4 - 6.6 k at 0 ° C
If the measurement is out of the range , replace the sensor .
If the measurement is within the specified , replace the fault-teller .
Inlet Air Temperature Sensor Circuit
Water Temperature Sensor ( Service Code 14 )
Drain the coolant ( see Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Disconnect the sensor connector , and unscrew the water temperature sensor .
Used Bolts 49 N · m ( 5.0 kgf · m )
Apply grease to new O-ring on the water temperature sensor .
Fill the engine with coolant and bleed the air from the cooling system ( see Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Water Temperature Sensor Output Voltage Inspection
The output voltage changes according to the coolant temperature in the engine .
Do not disconnect the connectors .
Connect a digital voltmeter to the FT connector with the needle adapter set .
Water Temperature Sensor Output Voltage
Meter ( + ) : O lead ( terminal 20 )
about 2.80 - 2.97 V at 20 ° C
Water Temperature Sensor Inspection
Refer to Water Temperature Sensor Inspection in the Electrical System chapter .
Water Temperature Sensor Circuit
Crankshaft Sensor ( Service Code 21 )
Start the engine and switch the diagnosis mode to Dealer 1 mode to know all the problem that the DFI system has at the time of self-diagnosis .
If the engine cannot be started , the self-diagnosis system does not detect dynamic condition of the crankshaft sensor .
Press to clear entry errors .
In this case , turn off the ignition switch and turn it on again to enter the Dealer 2 mode .
In this mode , the system tells all the troubles which the DFI system had in both static and dynamic conditions .
Crankshaft Sensor Removal / Installation
Refer to Oxygen Sensor Removal / Installation in the Electrical System chapter .
Crankshaft Sensor Inspection
The crankshaft sensor has no power source , and when the engine stops , the crankshaft sensor generates no signals .
Crank the engine and measure the peak voltage of the crankshaft sensor ( see Crankshaft Sensor Inspection in the Electrical System ) in order to check the sensor .
Check the wiring for continuity , using the following diagram .
Crankshaft Sensor Circuit
Speed Sensor ( Service Code 24 , 25 )
Speed Sensor Removal / Installation
Speed Sensor Inspection
Speed Sensor Input Voltage Inspection
Disconnect the speed sensor connector and connect the harness adapter between the harness connector and speed sensor connector .
Connect a digital meter to the harness adapter leads .
Speed Sensor Input Voltage
Meter ( + ) : BL ( sensor P ) lead
Meter ( − ) : BK ( sensor BK / Y ) lead [ D ]
About 9 - 11 V DC at Ignition Switch ON
If the reading is out of the range , check the wiring ( see wiring diagram in this section ) , and meter ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter ) .
Press to change display mode .
If the reading is good , check the output voltage .
Speed Sensor Output Voltage Inspection
Before this inspection , inspect the input voltage ( see Speed Sensor Input Voltage Inspection ) .
Speed Sensor Output Voltage at Sensor
Meter ( + ) : Y / W ( sensor LG / R ) lead
If the reading is out of the range , check the speed sensor operation ( see Speed Sensor Inspection in the Electrical System chapter ) and the wiring to FT ( see wiring diagram in this section ) .
If the reading , speed sensor operation and wiring are good , check the FT for its ground , and power supply ( see FT Power Supply Inspection ) .
Speed Sensor Circuit
Vehicle-down Sensor ( Service Code 31 )
Vehicle-down Sensor Removal
Never drop the down-sensor , especially on a hard surface .
Connector
Vehicle-down Sensor Installation
The UP mark of the sensor should face upward .
Incorrect installation of the vehicle-down sensor could cause sudden loss of engine power .
The rider could lose balance during certain riding situations like leaning over in a turn with the potential for an accident resulting in injury or death .
Ensure that the down sensor is held in place by the sensor brackets .
Vehicle-down Sensor Inspection
Connect a digital volt meter to the connector of the vehicle-down sensor with the needle adapter set [ D ] .
Vehicle-down Sensor Power Source Voltage
Press to engage the repeat playback mode .
Connections to Sensor
Meter ( + ) : BL lead [ D ]
Meter ( - ) : BR / BK lead [ F ]
Turn the ignition switch ON , and measure the power source voltage with the connector joined .
If the reading of input voltage is less than the standard , check the FT for its ground , power supply and wiring shorted .
If the power source is normal , check the output voltage .
Do not disconnect the sensor connector .
Connect a digital volt meter to the connector with needle adapter set .
Vehicle-down Sensor Output Voltage
Meter ( + ) : Y / G lead [ E ]
Hold the sensor vertically .
Turn the ignition switch ON , and measure the output voltage with the connector joined .
Tilt the sensor 60 - 70 ° or more right or left , then hold the sensor almost vertical with the arrow mark pointed up [ D ] , and measure the output voltage .
with sensor tilted 60 - 70 ° or more right or left :
If you need to test again , turn the ignition switch OFF , and then ON .
If the output voltage is out of the specified , replace the vehicle-down sensor .
Vehicle-down Sensor Circuit
Subthrottle Sensor ( Service Code 32 )
Be careful as a sharp object could penetrate the inside .
Subthrottle Sensor Removal / Adjustment
Block Lift Unit Binocular Shaft & Bearings
It can be used with Esoteric DVD players .
Do not remove or adjust the subthrottle sensor since it has been adjusted and set with precision at the factory .
No objects should be allowed to penetrate the inside .
Subthrottle Sensor Input Voltage Inspection
Remove the air cleaner housing ( see Air Cleaner Housing Removal ) .
Disconnect the subthrottle sensor connector and connect the harness adapter between these connectors .
Subthrottle Sensor Input Voltage
Subthrottle Sensor Connector
BL lead ( terminal 10 )
BR / BK lead ( terminal 28 )
Subthrottle Sensor Output Voltage Inspection
Measure the output voltage at the subthrottle sensor in the same way as input voltage inspection .
Meter ( + ) : Y ( sensor BL / W ) lead
Measure the output voltage when the subthrottle valve is fully opened or completely closed by hand .
If the output voltage is out of the standard , inspect the subthrottle sensor resistance .
BL / W lead ( terminal 7 )
Subthrottle Sensor Resistance Inspection
Disconnect the subthrottle sensor connector .
Connect a digital meter to the subthrottle sensor connector .
Measure the subthrottle sensor resistance .
Throttle Sensor Resistance
Press to skip forward or backward during playback .
BL lead ← → BK lead [ D ]
Subthrottle Sensor Circuit
Oxygen Sensor-not activated ( Service Code 33 ) - Europe Model
Oxygen Sensor Removal / Installation
Oxygen Sensor Inspection
Warm up the engine thoroughly until the radiator fan starts .
Oxygen Sensor Output Voltage
Remove the air switching valve hoses from the fitting .
Install the suitable plugs on the fitting and shut off the secondary air .
Start the engine , and let it idle .
Oxygen Sensor Output Voltage ( with Plugs )
Next , remove the plugs from the fitting with idling .
Oxygen Sensor Output Voltage ( without Plugs )
Oxygen Sensor Circuit
Stick Coil Removal / Installation
Never drop the stick coils , especially on a hard surface .
Such a shock to the stick coil can damage it .
Stick Coil Input Voltage Inspection
Do not disconnect the FT connector .
Connect a digital voltmeter as shown , with the needle adapter set .
Stick Coil Input Voltage at FT
Connections for Stick Coil # 1
Meter ( + ) : BK lead ( terminal 43 )
Meter ( - ) : BK / Y lead ( terminal 51 )
Meter ( + ) : BK / G lead ( terminal 52 )
Measure the input voltage to each primary winding of the ignition coils with the engine stopped , and with the connectors joined .
Battery Voltage
If the reading is out of the standard , check the wiring ( see next wiring diagram ) .
If the reading is good , the input voltage is normal .
Crank the engine , and check the peak voltage of the stick coils ( see Stick Coil Primary Peak Voltage in the Electrical System chapter ) in order to check the primary coils .
Settings ( introduction )
Stick Coil Circuit
Radiator Fan Relay ( Service Code 56 )
Radiator Fan Relay Removal / Installation
Radiator fan relay is bult in the relay box .
Remove the relay box ( see Relay Box Removal in the Electrical System chapter ) .
Radiator Fan Relay Inspection
See Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter .
Remove the relay box and FT ( see FT Removal ) .
If wiring and radiator fan relay are good , check the FT for its ground , and power supply ( see FT Power Supply Inspection ) .
Radiator Fan Relay Circuit
[ 1 ] Press the MENU button until the item you wish to change appears .
Subthrottle Valve Actuator ( Service Code 62 )
Subthrottle Valve Actuator Removal
Do not remove the subthrottle valve actuator since it has been adjusted and set with precision at the factory .
Such a shock to the actuator can damage it .
Subthrottle Valve Actuator Audible Inspection
Turn the ignition switch ON and ensure that the actuator valves open and close ( make light sounds ) several times within seconds , and then close at the idle throttle opening position .
If the actuator does not work as described above , do the visual inspection .
Check to see that all the subthrottle valves open and close smoothly .
If the subthrottle valves do not operate , check the actuator internal resistance ( see Subthrottle Valve Actuator Resistance Inspection ) .
Subthrottle Valve Actuator Resistance Inspection
The display indication changes with each press of the MENU button .
Disconnect the subthrottle valve actuator connector .
Connect a digital meter to the subthrottle valve actuator connector .
Measure the subthrottle valve actuator resistance .
Subthrottle Valve Actuator Resistance
BK lead [ 1 ] ← → P lead [ 2 ]
G lead [ 3 ] ← → W / BL lead [ 4 ]
About 5.5 - 7.5 k
If the reading is within the range , check the input voltage ( see Subthrottle Valve Actuator Input Voltage Inspection ) .
Subthrottle Valve Actuator Input Voltage Inspection
Connect the peak voltage adapter and a digital meter to the connector , using the needle adapter set [ D ] .
The P-05 exits the setup mode when it is left idle for 10 seconds or more .
Subthrottle Valve Actuator Input Voltage
Connections to Harness Connector
Meter ( + ) : BK / BL lead [ 1 ]
Meter ( - ) : P lead [ 2 ]
Meter ( - ) : G / Y lead [ 4 ]
Meter ( + ) : W / BL lead [ 3 ]
Input Voltage at Actuator
[ 2 ] Use the @ / @ buttons to change settings .
If the reading is within the standard but the actuator doesn ' t operate , replace it .
If the reading is out of the range , check the wiring to FT ( see wiring diagram in this section ) .
Subthrottle Valve Actuator Circuit
Air Switching Valve ( Service Code 64 )
Air Switching Valve Removal / Installation
Air Switching Valve Inspection
Refer to Air Switching Valve Operation Test in the Electrical System chapter .
Remove the fuel tank and check the wiring continuity , using the following diagram .
Air Switch Valve Circuit
Oxygen Sensor Heater ( Service Code 67 ) - Europe Model
Check for damage and wear
Individual menu functions are described on pages 12-15 .
Oxygen Sensor Heater Removal / Installation
The oxygen sensor heater is bult in the oxygen sensor .
So , the heater itself can not be removed .
Remove the oxygen sensor ( see Oxygen Sensor Removal in the Electrical System chapter ) .
Oxygen Sensor Heater Inspection
Disconnect the oxygen sensor lead connector .
Set the hand tester to the 1 range and connect it to the terminals in the oxygen sensor lead connector .
Black [ D ]
Oxygen Sensor Resistance
18 - 22 Ω at 20 ° C
[ 3 ] Press the MENU button once or twice to exit the setup mode and return the normal display .
If the tester reading is not as specified , replace the oxygen sensor with a new one .
If he tester reading is specified , check the power source voltage Inspection .
Oxygen Sensor Power Source Voltage
Meter ( - ) : Battery ( - ) Terminal
Measure the power source voltage with the engine stopped , and with the connector joined .
If the reading is incorrect , check the following .
If the reading is good , the power source voltage is normal , Inspect the Red / Black lead between the oxygen sensor connector and the FT for continuity , using the following diagram .
If the wiring is good , inspect the FT for its ground , and power supply ( see FT Power Supply Inspection ) .
Oxygen Sensor-Incorrect Output Voltage ( Service Code 94 ) - Europe Model
If the reading is without range , inspect the engine and fuel supply system .
If you leave the unit idle for 10 seconds or the STOP button is pressed once , the setup mode will be cancelled and return the normal display .
Inspection Flow Chart
FI Indicator Light ( LED ) Inspection
Remove the meter unit ( see Meter Unit Removal in the Electrical System chapter ) .
Using two auxiliary leads , supply battery power to the FI indicator light ( LED ) .
12 V Battery
FI Indicator Light ( LED ) Check
Connector :
Meter Connector ( disconnected )
Connection :
W / BK Lead Terminal [ 1 ] of the Meter : Battery ( + ) Terminal
Available menu items and settings
BR / R Lead Terminal [ 16 ] of the Meter : Battery ( - ) Terminal
Criterion :
The light ( LED ) should light .
FI Indicator Light ( LED ) Circuit
Never drop the FT , especially on a hard surface .
Such a shock to the FT can damage it .
FT Removal
Remove the bolt .
Push the central pin , and then remove the quick rivets .
Pull out the rear fender rear backward and downward .
FT Installation
Install :
Fit the bracket on the FT as shown .
FT Power Supply Inspection
Visually inspect the terminals of the FT connectors .
If the connector is clogged with mud or dust , blow it off with compressed air .
Replace the main harness if the terminals of the main harness connectors are cracked , bent , or otherwise damaged .
replace the fault-teller if the terminals of the FT connectors are cracked , bent , or otherwise damaged .
With the FT connectors connected , check the following ground lead for continuity with the ignition switch OFF , using a tester and needle adapter set .
FT Grounding Inspection
Sets the UP CONVERT sampling frequency of the digital signal output from the XLR terminals during CD playback .
34 , 50 , or 51 ( BK / Y ) Terminal
Battery ( - ) Terminal :
Engine Ground
If no continuity , check the connector , the engine ground lead , or main harness , and repair or replace them if necessary .
check the FT power source voltage with a digital meter .
Position the terminal in accordance with terminal numbers of FT connectors in this chapter figure .
FT Power Source Inspection
Meter Connections :
Between Terminal 16 ( BR / W ) and Battery ( - ) Terminal
Between Terminal 17 ( W / BK ) and Battery ( - ) Terminal
Ignition Switch OFF :
Ignition Switch ON :
If the meter does not read as specified , check the following :
FT Fuse 15 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
FT Main Relay ( see Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Power Source Wiring ( see wiring diagram below )
FT Power Source Circuit
FT Main Fuse 15 A
Turns on or off the word sync function .
Fuel Line
Fuel Pressure Inspection
This inspection can determine which trouble the DFI system has , mechanical or electrical trouble .
It is preferable to measure the fuel pressure while running the motorcycle just when trouble occurred in order to know symptom well .
Be sure to place a piece of cloth around the fuel hose joint and the delivery pipe .
Remove the fuel hose .
When the fuel hose is disconnected , fuel spills out from the hose and the pipe because of residual pressure .
Cover the hose connection with a piece of clean cloth to prevent fuel spillage .
Install the fuel pressure gauge adapter and fuel hoses between the fuel pump outlet pipe and the delivery pipe .
Connect the pressure gauge [ D ] to the fuel pressure gauge adapter .
Fuel Pressure Gauge Adapter :
Do not try to start the engine with the fuel hoses disconnected .
Temporarily , install the fuel tank [ E ] .
The fuel pump will turn for 3 seconds , and then stop .
Do not drive the fuel pump without the fuel in the fuel tank .
Measure the fuel pressure with the engine idling .
Fuel Pressure ( Idling )
- 141.7 kPa ( 1.15 - 1.45 kgf / cm ² )
The gauge needle will fluctuate .
Read the pressure at the average of the maximum and minimum indications .
Sets which layer to prioritize for playback when Super Audio CDs and dual layer hybrid discs are inserted .
Install the fuel pump ( see Fuel Pump Installation ) .
If the fuel pressure is much lower than specified , check the following :
Fuel Line Leakage
Amount of Fuel Flow ( see Fuel Flow Rate Inspection )
Remove the fuel pressure gauge and adapter .
Spark Plugs ( see Spark Plug Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter )
Fuel Tank ( see Fuel Tank Removal )
Fuel Flow Rate Inspection
Turn the ignition switch , and engine stop switch OFF .
Remove the fuel tank bolt ( see Fuel Tank Removal ) .
Condition of bearings
Open the fuel tank cap to lower the pressure in the tank .
Connect the plastic hose to the fuel pump outlet pipe .
SFTre the plastic hose with a clamp .
Run the other side of the plastic hose into the measuring cylinder .
Wipe off spilled out fuel immediately .
Be sure to hold the measuring cylinder vertical .
Close the fuel tank cap .
With the engine stopped , turn the ignition switch ON .
The fuel pump should operate for 3 seconds , and then should stop .
Repeat this several times until the plastic hose is filled with fuel .
Sets the digital signal format output from the XLR terminals .
Repeat this operation several times .
Amount of Fuel Flow
If the fuel flow is much less than the specified , check the battery condition ( see Battery section in the Electrical System chapter ) .
Install the fuel tank ( see Fuel Tank Installation ) .
Start the engine and check for fuel leakage .
Fuel Pump Removal
Never drop the fuel pump , especially on a hard surface .
Such a shock to the pump can damage it .
Disconnect the battery ( - ) terminal .
To make fuel spillage minimum , draw the fuel out from the fuel tank when the engine is cold .
Draw the fuel out from the fuel tank with a commercially available electric pump .
Be careful of fuel spillage from the fuel tank since fuel still remains in the fuel tank and fuel pump .
Plug the fuel pipe of the fuel tank .
Turn the fuel tank upside down .
Fuel Pump and gasket
Discard the fuel pump gasket .
Do not pull the lead of the fuel pump .
If they are pulled , the lead terminals may be damaged .
Fuel Pump Installation
Remove dirt or dust from the fuel pump by lightly applying compressed air .
Sets the signal type output from the i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminals .
Replace the fuel pump gasket with a new one .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads of the fuel pump bolts .
Tighten the fuel pump bolts to a snug fit , tighten them alternating diagonally .
Tighten the pump bolts again alternating diagonally to check the tightness .
Fuel Pump Operation Inspection
Just listen to the pump sound in the fuel tank to confirm pump operation .
Turn the ignition switch ON and ensure that the fuel pump operates ( make light sounds ) for 3 seconds , and then stops .
If the pump does not work as described above , inspect the operating voltage .
Fuel Pump Operating Voltage Inspection
Remove the left side cover ( see Side Cover Removal in the Frame chapter ) .
Connect the hand tester ( 25 V DC ) to the fuel pump connector with needle adapter set .
Pump Operating Voltage at Pump
Connections to Pump Connectors
Tester ( + ) : W / R Lead
Tester ( - ) : BK / Y Lead
The tester needle should indicate battery voltage for 3 seconds , and then 0 V .
Operating Voltage at Pump Connector
If the voltage is in specification , but the pump doesn ' t work , replace the pump .
If there is still no battery voltage , check the pump relay ( see Relay Box section in the Electrical System chapter ) .
Pressure Regulator Removal
Turns on or off digital output from the RCA jacks .
The pressure regulator is built into the fuel pump and cannot be removed .
Pump Screen , Fuel Filter Cleaning
The fuel filter is built into the pump and cannot be cleaned or checked .
If the fuel filter is suspected of clogging or being damaged , replace it with the fuel pump as a set .
Fuel Pump Circuit
Removal / Installation
Refer to the Throttle Body Assy Disassembly / Assembly .
Audible Inspection
Apply the tip of a screwdriver to the injector .
Put the grip end onto your ear , and listen whether the injector is clicking or not .
A sound scope can also be used .
Do the same for the other injectors .
If all the injectors click at a regular intervals , the injectors are good .
The trouble may be related to the fuel line , requiring fuel pressure inspection ( see Fuel Line section ) .
The click interval becomes shorter as the engine speed rises .
If any injector ( s ) doesn ' t click , the DFI circuit or the injector is suspect .
Perform “ Fuel Injector Power Source Voltage Inspection ” , first .
Fuel Injector Power Source Voltage Inspection
Do not short each terminals .
Connections to Injector
Sets the type of D / A converter to be connected .
If the meter doesn ' t read as specified , check the following .
Fuel Pump Relay ( see Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
If the power source voltage is normal , check the output voltage of the injectors .
Fuel Injector Output Voltage Inspection
Injector Output Voltage
Meter ( + ) : BL / Y lead
Output Voltage at Injector Connector
If the output voltage is normal , perform Injector Signal Test ” .
If the output voltage is out of the standard , turn the ignition switch OFF , remove the fuel tank , and check the injector wiring for continuity .
Injector Wiring Inspection
Settings 2
FT Connector
Injector Connectors
Injector # 1 Terminal ( BL / R )
Injector # 2 Terminal ( BL / G )
If the wiring is good , inspect the resistance of the injectors ( see Injector Resistance Inspection ) .
Injector Signal Test
Prepare two test light sets with male terminals as shown .
Terminal Width :
Terminal Thickness :
Up convert
Do not use larger terminals than specified above .
A larger terminal could damage the injector main harness connector ( female ) , leading to harness repair or replacement .
Be sure to connect bulbs in series .
The bulb works as a current limiter to protect the solenoid in the injector from excessive current .
Disconnect the connector from the injector .
Connect each test light set to the injector sub harness connector .
While cranking the engine with the starter motor , watch the test lights .
If the test lights flicker at regular intervals , the injector circuit in the FT , and the wiring are good .
Perform the Injector Resistance Inspection ” .
Injector signals can be also confirmed by connecting the hand tester ( 10 V AC ) instead of the test light set to the injector main harness ( female ) connector .
Block Lift Unit Switches
You can convert the 44.1 kHz CD sampling frequency to 2x or 4x .
Crank the engine with the starter motor , and check to see if the hand oscillates at regular intervals .
If the test light doesn ' t flicker ( or the tester needle doesn ' t oscillates ) , check the wiring and connectors again .
Injector Resistance Inspection
Measure the injector resistance with the hand tester .
Injector Resistance
Meter ( + )
Meter ( - )
# 1 : W / R ← →
BL / R Terminal
BL / G Terminal
It is also possible to convert the CD PCM signal to a DSD signal .
about 11.7 - 12.3 @ 20 ° C
If the reading is out of the range , perform the Injector Unit Test ” .
If the reading is normal , perform the Injector Unit Test ” for confirmation .
Injector Unit Test
Use two leads and the same test light set as in Injector Signal Test ” .
12 V ( 3 - 3.4 ) W
12 V Battery [ D ]
Be sure to connect the bulb in series .
Connect the test light set to the injector [ E ] as shown .
Open and connect [ F ] the end of the lead to the battery ( - ) terminal repeatedly .
0.9
The injector should click .
If the injector does not click , replace the injector .
Injector Fuel Line Inspection
Pull the fuel hose joint out of the delivery pipe .
Check the injector fuel line for leakage as follows :
Connect a commercially available vacuum / pressure pump to the nipple of the delivery pipe with a high-pressure fuel hose ( both ends connected with the clamps [ D ] ) as shown .
Apply soap and water solution to the areas [ E ] as shown .
Watching the pressure gauge , squeeze the pump lever [ F ] , and build up the pressure until the pressure reaches the maximum pressure .
Injector Fuel Line Maximum Pressure
During pressure testing , do not exceed the maximum pressure for which the system is designed .
A 2x conversion rate that outputs a sampling frequency twice the 44.1 kHz CD sampling frequency .
Watch the gauge for at least 6 seconds .
If the pressure holds steady , the system is good .
If the pressure drops at once or if bubbles are found in the area , the line is leaking .
Replace the delivery pipe , injectors and related parts .
Repeat the leak test , and check the fuel line for no leakage .
Run the hoses correctly ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Fuel Injector Circuit
Throttle Grip Free Play Inspection
Refer to Throttle Control System Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Throttle Grip Free Play Adjustment
A 4x conversion rate that outputs a sampling frequency four times the 44.1 kHz CD sampling frequency .
Throttle Cable Installation
Install the throttle cables in accordance with Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter .
Install the lower ends of the throttle cables in the cable bracket on the throttle assy after installing the upper ends of the throttle cables in the grip .
After installation , adjust each cable properly .
Operation with incorrectly routed or improperly adjusted cables could result in an unsafe riding condition .
Throttle Cable Lubrication
Refer to Chassis Parts Lubrication in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Refer to Idle Speed Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Engine Vacuum Synchronization Inspection / Adjustment
Refer to Engine Vacuum Synchronization Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Throttle Body Assy Removal
Disconnect the battery ( - ) cable terminal .
Vacuum Hose
Remove the throttle cable lower ends from the throttle pulley .
After removing the throttle body assy , stuff pieces of lint-free , clean cloth into the throttle body holders .
If dirt gets into the engine , excessive engine wear and possible engine damage will occur .
Throttle Body Assy Installation
Run the hoses and harness correctly ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Fit the accelerator cable end and the decelerator cable end into the throttle pulley .
Check fuel leakage from the throttle body assy .
This setting provides no up conversion .
Fuel spilled from the carburetors is hazardous .
Apply a thin coating of grease to the throttle cable upper ends .
Install the upper ends of the throttle cables in the grip .
Fit the projection of the right switch housing into the hole of the handlebar .
Turn the throttle grip and ensure that the throttle valves move smoothly and return by spring force .
Check the throttle grip free play ( see Throttle Control System Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Operation with an incorrectly routed cable could result in an unsafe riding condition .
Adjust :
Throttle Cables ( see Throttle Control System Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter )
Throttle Body Assy Disassembly
* The i . LINK terminal cannot output upconverted signals or signals converted to DSD signals .
Do not remove , disassemble or adjust the main throttle sensor , subthrottle sensor , subthrottle valve actuator , throttle link mechanism [ D ] and throttle body assy [ E ] , because they are adjusted or set at the manufacturer .
Adjustment of these parts could result in poor performance , requiring replacement of the throttle body assy .
Such a shock to the body assy can damage it .
Throttle Body Assy Assembly
Replace the O-rings and seals with the new ones .
Before assembling , blow away dirt or dust from the throttle body and delivery pipe by applying compressed air .
Apply engine oil to the new O-rings of each injector , insert them into the delivery pipe and confirm whether the injectors turn smoothly or not .
Install the injectors along with the delivery pipe assy into the throttle bodies .
Install the throttle body assy ( see Throttle Body Assy Installation ) .
Air Cleaner Element Removal / Installation
The RCA terminals cannot output signals converted to DSD signals .
Refer to Air Cleaner Element Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Air Cleaner Element Inspection
Remove the air cleaner element ( see Air Cleaner Element Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Air Cleaner Oil Draining
A drain hose is connected to the bottom of the air cleaner to drain water or oil accumulated in the cleaner part .
Visually check the drain hose if the water or oil accumulates .
If any water or oil accumulates in the hose , remove the plug from the drain hose and drain it .
Be sure to reinstall the plug in the drain hose after draining .
Air Cleaner Housing Removal
Air Switching Valve and Hose ( see Air Switching Valve Removal in the Engine Top End chapter )
For details , see the chart on page 8 .
Inlet Air Temperature Sensor Connector
Side Cover
Disconnect the breather hose on the upper crankcase .
Unscrew the bolts and remove the air cleaner housing .
Air Cleaner Housing Installation
Install the clamp on the hose so that its pinch heads face the right .
Fuel Tank Removal
During tank removal , keep the tank cap open to release pressure in the tank .
This makes fuel spillage less .
Seat ( see Seat Removal in the Frame chapter )
Nut runner Unit Drive Sockets
* Super Audio CDs output a DSD signal ( 1 bit , 64fs ) and cannot be up converted .
Side Covers ( see Side Cover Removal in the Frame chapter )
Fuel Tank Bolts
Draw the fuel out from the fuel tank with a commercially available pump .
Use a soft plastic hose as a pump inlet hose in order to insert the hose smoothly .
Put the hose through the fill opening into the tank and draw the fuel out .
Front [ D ]
The fuel could not be removed completely from the fuel tank .
Be careful for remained fuel spillage .
Disconnect :
Pull the fuel hose joint out [ D ] of the outlet pipe .
Use this setting when you want to get your whole system locked to a single sync signal ( clock ) by connecting this unit to the Esoteric G-0Rb or G-03X or other devices that are capable of outputting a sync signal ( word clock ) .
When removing the fuel hose joint , do not apply strong force to the outlet pipe on the fuel pump .
The pipe made from resin could be damaged .
Remove the fuel tank , and place it on a flat surface .
Do not apply the load to the fuel pump outlet portion especially the outlet pipe made from resin .
Fuel Tank Installation
Note the above WARNING ( see Fuel Tank Removal ) .
Route the hoses correctly ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing in the Appendix chapter ) .
Check that the rubber dampers are on the frame and the fuel tank .
Check that the dampers are in place on the fuel tank as well .
If the dampers are damaged or deteriorated , replace them .
* This unit is ready for the following clocks and switches itself depending on an incoming signal :
Be sure that the trim seal is on the fuel tank .
Reverse Side of Fuel Tank
Approx . 17 mm [ D ]
Front [ E ]
When installing the fuel hose joint , do not apply strong force to the outlet pipe on the fuel pump .
Push and pull the hose joint back and forth more than two times and ensure it is locked and doesn ' t come off .
Connect the fuel pump and the fuel level sensor connectors and the battery ( - ) cable terminal .
Fuel Tank and Cap Inspection
Visually inspect the gasket on the tank cap for any damage .
Replace the gasket if it is damaged .
Check to see if the water drain pipe in the tank is not clogged . check the tank cap breather also .
If they are clogged , remove the tank and drain it , and then blow the breather free with compressed air .
Do not apply compressed air to the air vent holes in the tank cap .
This could cause damage and clogging of the labyrinth in the cap .
Fuel Tank Cleaning
Clean the tank in a well-ventilated area , and take care that there are no sparks or flame anywhere near the working area .
Because of the danger or highly flammable liquids , do not use gasoline or low-flash point solvents to clean the tank .
Remove the fuel pump inlet hose and the fuel pump ( see Fuel Pump section ) .
Pour some high-flash point solvent into the fuel tank and shake the tank to remove dirt and fuel deposits .
Draw the solvent out of the fuel tank .
It also accepts a Universal Clock frequency of 100 kHz .
Dry the tank with compressed air .
Baffle Plate
Mechanical Seal
Thermostat
Water Pump Impeller
Apply high-temperature grease .
Apply soap and water solution or rubber lubricant .
Coolant Flow Chart
* The indicator flashes and the unit starts searching for an external sync signal when “ Word ON ” is selected .
Permanent type antifreeze is used as a coolant to protect the cooling system from rust and corrosion .
When the engine starts , the water pump turns and the coolant circulates .
The thermostat is a wax pellet type which opens or closes with coolant temperature changes .
The thermostat continuously changes its valve opening to keep the coolant temperature at the proper level .
When coolant temperature is below 80.5 - 83.5 ° C , the thermostat closes so that the coolant flow is restricted through the air bleeder hole , causing the engine to warm up more quickly .
When coolant temperature is more than 80.5 - 83.5 ° C , the thermostat opens and the coolant flows .
When the coolant temperature goes up beyond 93 - 103 ° C , the radiator fan relay conducts to operate the radiator fan .
The radiator fan draws air through the radiator core when there is not sufficient air flow such as at low speeds .
This increases up the cooling action of the radiator .
When the temperature is below 91 ° C - temperature less than ON temperature , the fan relay opens and the radiator fan stops .
The indicator changes to a steady blue light when the unit detects and locks to an external clock to indicate it is ready for playback .
In this way , this system controls the engine temperature within narrow limits where the engine operates most efficiently even if the engine load varies .
The system is pressurized by the radiator cap to suppress boiling and the resultant air bubbles which can cause engine overheating .
As the engine warms up , the coolant in the radiator and the water jacket expands .
The excess coolant flows through the radiator cap and hose to the reserve tank to be stored there temporarily .
Conversely , as the engine cools down , the coolant in the radiator and the water jacket contracts , and the stored coolant flows back to the radiator from the reserve tank .
The radiator cap has two valves .
One is a pressure valve which holds the pressure in the system when the engine is running .
When the pressure exceeds 112.3 - 141.7 kPa ( 1.15 - 1.45 kgf / cm ² ) , the pressure valve opens and releases the pressure to the reserve tank .
As soon as pressure escapes , the valve closes , and keeps the pressure at 112.3 - 141.7 kPa ( 1.15 - 1.45 kgf / cm ² ) .
When the engine cools down , another small valve ( vacuum valve ) in the cap opens .
Use this setting when you do not use a word clock .
As the coolant cools , the coolant contracts to form a vacuum in the system .
The vacuum valve opens and allows the coolant from the reserve tank to enter the radiator .
Coolant Provided when Shipping
Type ( Recommended )
Permanent type of antifreeze ( soft water and ethylene glycol plus corrosion and rust inhibitor chemicals for aluminum engines and radiators )
Soft water 50 % , coolant 50 %
1.2 L ( reserve tank full level , including radiator and engine )
Relief Pressure
Valve Opening Temperature
Valve Full Opening Lift
* Switching word sync on and off may occasionally result in noise from the D / A converter .
8 mm or more @ 95 ° C
Bearing Driver Set 57001-1129
Coolant Deterioration Inspection
Remove the lower fairing ( see Lower Fairing Removal in the Frame chapter ) .
Visually inspect the coolant in the reserve tank .
If whitish cotton-like wafts are observed , aluminum parts in the cooling system are corroded .
If the coolant is brown , iron or steel parts are rusting .
In either case , flush the cooling system .
If the coolant gives off an abnormal smell , check for a cooling system leak .
It may be caused by exhaust gas leaking into the cooling system .
If this is the case , turn off the unit and lower the amplifier sound volume before switching the function on or off .
Refer to Coolant Level in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Coolant Draining
Refer to Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Pressure Testing
Remove the radiator cap , and install a cooling system pressure tester on the filler neck .
Wet the cap sealing surfaces with water or coolant to prevent pressure leaks .
Build up pressure in the system carefully until the pressure reaches 141.7 kPa ( 1.45 kgf / cm ² ) .
During pressure testing , do not exceed the pressure for which the system is designed .
The maximum pressure is 141.7 kPa ( 1.45 kgf / cm ² ) .
If the pressure holds steady , the system is all right .
Condition of drive sockets
* If word sync on the D / A converter is on , please turn on word sync on the P-05 as well .
If the pressure drops and no external source is found , check for internal leaks .
Droplets in the engine oil indicate internal leakage .
Check the cylinder head gasket and the water pump .
Remove the pressure tester , replenish the coolant , and install the radiator cap .
Cooling System Flushing
Over a period of time , the cooling system accumulates rust , scale , and lime in the water jacket and radiator .
When this accumulation is suspected or observed , flush the cooling system .
If this accumulation is not removed , it will clog up the water passage and considerable reduce the efficiency of the cooling system .
Drain the cooling system ( see Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Fill the cooling system with fresh water mixed with a flushing compound .
Using with word sync turned off on the P-05 may cause noise output .
Do not use a flushing compound which is harmful to the aluminum engine and radiator .
Carefully follow the instructions supplied by the manufacturer of the cleaning product .
Warm up the engine , and run it at normal operating temperature for about ten minutes .
Stop the engine , and drain the cooling system .
Fill the system with fresh water .
Warm up the engine and drain the system .
Repeat the previous two steps once more .
Fill the system with a permanent type coolant and bleed the air from the system ( see Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Coolant Reserve Tank Removal / Installation
The coolant reserve tank is removed and installed during coolant change ( see Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
LAYER ( priority playback area )
Water Pump Removal
Shift the transmission into 1st gear .
While applying the rear brake , remove the water pump impeller bolt .
Impeller
Water Pump Housing
Water Pump Installation
Replace the O-rings on the water pump housing with new ones and apply grease them .
Apply high temperature grease to the lips of the water pump housing oil seal .
Be sure that the dowel pin is in position .
Install the water pump housing .
Among Super Audio CDs are 2-channel and multi-channel recorded discs , as well as hybrid discs which include a Super Audio CD and a regular CD as two layers .
When installing the water pump impeller bolt , shift the transmission into 1st gear and apply the rear brake .
Replace the O-ring on the water pump cover with a new one and grease it .
Install the water pump cover , being careful of the two dowel pins .
Mechanical Seal Inspection
Remove the valve ( see Valve Removal ) .
Visually inspect the mechanical seal .
If any one of the parts is damaged , replace the mechanical seal as a unit .
The sealing seat and rubber seal may be removed easily by hand .
[ A ] Impeller Sealing Seat Surface
[ B ] Rubber Seal
This mode selects which area to read first when a hybrid Super Audio CD is inserted .
[ C ] Mechanical Seal Diaphragm
Position the radiator hose clamp screws [ E ] as shown .
Fill the radiator with coolant ( see Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Water Pump Housing Disassembly
Be careful not to damage the sealing surface of the mechanical seal .
Take the oil seal out of the housing with a hook .
Press the mechanical seal out of the housing with a bearing driver .
Water Pump Housing Assembly
Apply a high temperature grease to the new oil seal .
Press the oil seal into the housing with a bearing driver so that the seal surface is flush with the end of the hole .
Apply oil to the outer circumference [ D ] of the oil seal so that it will go into place smoothly .
Press the new mechanical seal into the housing with the oil seal driver [ D ] until its flange [ E ] touches the surface [ F ] of the housing .
Impeller Assembly
Clean the sliding surface of the mechanical seal with a high flash-point solvent , and apply a little coolant to the sliding surface to give the mechanical seal initial lubrication .
Apply coolant to the surfaces of the rubber seal and sealing seat , and install the rubber seal and sealing seat into the impeller by pressing them by hand until the seat stops at the bottom of the hole .
Pump Impeller Inspection
Visually check the impeller .
If the surface is corroded , or if the blades are damaged , replace the impeller .
Radiator and Radiator Fan Removal
Remove the right frame cover ( see Frame Cover Removal in the Frame chapter ) .
Disconnect the crankshaft sensor lead connector .
Pull the radiator toward the left , noting the baffle plate on the cylinder head cover .
Do not touch the radiator core .
This could damage the radiator fins , resulting in loss of cooling efficiency .
Radiator Fan Mounting Bolts
Radiator and Radiator Fan Installation
Note the baffle plate on the cylinder head cover when intalling the radiator .
New Bolts 54 N · m ( 5.5 kgf · m )
Install the muffler body clamp bolt [ H ] as shown .
Radiator Inspection
The CD layer is read first .
Check the radiator core .
If there are obstructions to air flow , remove them .
If the corrugated fins are deformed , carefully straighten them .
If the air passages of the radiator core are blocked more than 20 % by unremovable obstructions or irreparably deformed fins , replace the radiator with a new one .
When cleaning the radiator with steam cleaner , be careful of the following to prevent radiator damage :
Keep the steam gun away more than 0.5 m from the radiator core .
Hold the steam gun perpendicular ( not oblique [ D ] ) to the core surface .
Run the steam gun , following the core fin direction .
Radiator Cap Inspection
Remove the reserve tank ( see Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Select this setting when connecting to a D / A converter that is
Check the condition of the bottom and top valve seals and valve spring .
If any one of them shows visible damage , replace the cap with a new one .
Install the cap on a cooling system pressure tester .
Watching the pressure gauge , pump the pressure tester to build up the pressure until the relief valve opens :
Stop pumping and measure leak time at once .
The relief valve must open within the specified range in the table below and the gauge hand must remain within the same range at least 6 seconds .
Radiator Cap Relief Pressure
112.3 - 141.7 kPa ( 1.15 - 1.45 kgf / cm ² )
If the cap can not hold the specified pressure or if it holds too much pressure , replace it with a new one .
Radiator Filler Neck Inspection
not compatible with DSD signals .
Check the radiator filler neck for signs of damage .
Check the condition of the top and bottom sealing seats in the filler neck .
They must be smooth and clean for the radiator cap to function properly .
Thermostat Removal
Disconnect the alternator lead connector .
Horn Bolt
Horn
Pull the thermostat out of the cylinder head .
Thermostat Installation
Install the thermostat in the cylinder head so that the air bleeder hole is on top .
Nut runner Unit Spindles
* If the layer selected by this setting is not present on the disc , the other layer will be played .
Install a new O-ring into the housing and apply grease it .
Thermostat Inspection
Remove the thermostat , and inspect the thermostat valve at room temperature .
If the valve is open , replace the thermostat with a new one .
To check valve opening temperature , suspend the thermostat in a container of water and raise the temperature of the water .
The thermostat must be completely submerged and must not touch the container sides or bottom .
Suspend an accurate thermometer in the water so that the heat sensitive portions are located in almost the same depth .
It must not touch the container , either .
If the measurement is out of the specified range , replace the thermostat with a new one .
Thermostat Valve Opening Temperature
* If the playback area of an inserted disc has been changed by pressing the PLAY AREA button while playback is stopped ( page 19 ) , this setting will be returned to when a new disc is inserted .
80.5 - 83.5 ° C
Hose and Pipes
Hose Installation
Install the hoses and pipes , being careful to follow bending direction .
Avoid sharp bending , kinking , flattening or twisting .
Run the hoses ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Install the clamp as near as possible to the hose end to clear the raised rib of the fitting .
This will prevent the hoses from working loose .
The clamp screws should be positioned correctly to prevent the clamps from contacting the other parts .
Hose Inspection
* In order to play Super Audio CDs , use an i . LINK cable to connect to a D / A converter equipped with an i . LINK terminal .
Refer to the Brake Hose Damage and Installation Condition Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
The water temperature sensor should never be allowed to fall on a hard surface .
Such a shock to the water temperature sensor can damage it .
Refer to Water Temperature Sensor Removal / Installation in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter .
Apply molybdenum disulfide grease .
Full :
Full Power
Honeycomb Type Catalyst
Silencer with Hole for Oxygen Sensor
XLR ( XLR output setting )
Muffler Body Clamp Bolt
Camshafts
Cam Height :
Camshaft Journal , Camshaft Cap Clearance
Camshaft Journal Diameter
Camshaft Bearing Inside Diameter
Camshaft Runout
TIR 0.02 mm or less
TIR 0.05 mm
Cylinder Head
This mode sets the connection method for the XLR terminals .
Cylinder Compression
( Usable Range )
- 1,471 kPa ( 9.8 - 15.0 kgf / cm ² ) @ 400 r / min ( rpm )
Cylinder Head Warp
Valves
Valve Head Thickness :
Valve Stem Bend
Valve Stem Diameter :
Valve Guide Inside Diameter :
Valve / Valve Guide Clearance ( Wobble Method ) :
Single
Valve Seat Cutting Angle
Valve Seating Surface :
Width :
Outside Diameter :
Valve Spring Free Length :
Cylinder , Pistons
Cylinder Inside Diameter
Piston Diameter
Piston / Cylinder Clearance
Piston Ring / Groove Clearance :
Outputs stereo digital signals from the XLR terminals .
Top
Second
Piston Ring Groove Width :
Piston Ring Thicknesses :
Piston Ring End Gap :
Compression Gauge , 20 kgf / cm ² :
Valve Spring Compressor Adapter , " 22 " :
Compression Gauge Adapter , M10 1.0 :
Valve Seat Cutter Holder , & b . phis ; 4.5 :
Valve Guide Arbor , & b . phis ; 4.5 :
Select this setting when connecting to a D / A converter using one XLR cable .
Valve Guide Reamer , & b . phis ; 4.5 :
Piston Pin Puller Adapter C :
Clean Air System
Air Suction Valve Removal
Air Switching Valve with Hoses ( see Air Switching Valve Removal )
Air Suction Valve
Air Suction Valve Installation
Install the air suction valve so that its side where stopper is fixed with the screws faces the front .
Air Suction Valve Inspection
Remove the air suction valve ( see Air Suction Valve Removal ) .
Dual
Visually inspect the reeds for cracks , folds , warps , heat damage or other damage .
If there is any doubt as to the condition of the reeds , replace the air suction valve as an assembly .
Check the reed contact areas of the valve holder for grooves , scratches , any signs of separation from the holder or heat damage .
If there is any doubt as to the condition of the reed contact areas , replace the air suction valve as an assembly .
If any carbon or other foreign particles have accumulated between the reed and the reed contact area , wash the valve assembly clean with a high-flash point solvent .
Do not scrape off the deposits with a scraper as this could damage the rubber , requiring replacement of the suction valve assembly .
Air Switching Valve Removal
Air Switching Valve Installation
Air Switching Valve Operation Test
Refer to the Air Pressure Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Outputs the left channel digital signal from the XLR1 ( L ) terminal , and the right channel digital signal from the XLR2 ( R ) terminal .
Air Switching Valve Unit Test
Refer to Air Switching Valve Unit Test in the Electrical System chapter .
Clean Air System Hose Inspection
Be certain that all the hoses are routed without being flattened or kinked , and are connected correctly to the air cleaner housing , air switching valve , # 1 and # 2 throttle body holders and air suction valve covers .
If they are not , correct them .
Replace them if they are damaged .
Cylinder Head Cover Removal
Throttle Body Assy ( see Throttle Body Removal in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter )
Cylinder Head Cover [ E ]
Clamps [ F ]
Why have you bought more stuff than I need ?
Refer to Bosch manual .
Select this setting when connecting the P-05 to an Esoteric D / A converter ( D-01 / D-03 / D-05 ) or to a Dual AES-compatible device using two XLR digital cables .
Replace the head cover gasket with a new one .
Apply silicone sealant to the cylinder head as shown .
Be sure to install the following parts .
Install the washers with metal side faces upward .
Be sure that the spacer is in position .
Camshaft Chain Tensioner
Camshaft Chain Tensioner Removal
This is a non-return type camshaft chain tensioner .
The push rod does not return to its original position once it moves out to take up camshaft chain slack .
Observe all the rules listed below :
There is no output from the XLR terminals .
When removing the tensioner , do not take out the mounting bolts only halfway .
Retightening the mounting bolts from this position could damage the tensioner and the camshaft chain .
Once the bolts are loosened , the tensioner must be removed and reset as described in " Camshaft Chain Tensioner Installation . "
Do not turn over the pan while the tensioner is removed .
This could upset the camshaft chain timing , and damage the valves .
Cap Bolt
Washer
Remove the mounting bolts [ D ] and take off the camshaft chain tensioner .
Camshaft Chain Tensioner Installation
Apply grease to the O-ring .
Select this setting when not using the XLR terminals .
Release the stopper .
Push the push rod into the tensioner .
Release the stopper and push the push rod into the tensioner .
Install the tensioner .
The stopper faces upward .
Install the tensioner so that the stopper faces upward .
Tighten the tensioner mounting bolts .
Spring
Tighten the cap bolt .
Turn it 2 turns clockwise to allow the tensioner to expand and recheck the camshaft chain timing .
* To output surround sound on a Super Audio CD , set the ” 2ch / Multi ch ” selection to ” Multi MODE ” .
Camshaft , Camshaft Chain
Camshaft Removal
Cylinder Head Cover ( see Cylinder Head Cover Removal )
Using a wrench on the crankshaft rotation bolt , turn the crankshaft clockwise until the 2 | T mark line on the timing rotor is aligned with the notch in the edge of the upper hole in the clutch cover .
If the clutch cover is removed , perform the next procedure .
Remove the camshaft ( see Camshaft Removal ) .
Camshaft Caps
The crankshaft may be turned several times while the camshafts are removed .
Always pull the chain taut while turning the crankshaft .
This avoids kinking the chain on the lower sprocket .
If ” 2ch MODE ” is selected , downmixed sound will be output .
A kinked chain could damage the chain and the sprocket .
Remove the mounting bolts on the right of the engine .
Engine Installation
Install the sprockets so that the marked IN side faces to the right side .
The inlet and exhaust sprockets are identical .
Inlet sprocket must use bolt holes with the mark IN .
Exhaust sprocket must use marked bolts holes .
Rub a small amount of non-permanent locking agent to the camshaft sprockets bolts and tighten them .
Rub a small amount of molybdenum disulfide oil solution to all thrust blocks with marks .
If a new camshaft is to be used , inject a thin coat of molybdenum disulfide grease to the cam surfaces .
( page 14 )
The exhaust camshaft has a 2,412 EX mark [ D ] and the inlet camshaft has a 2,412 IN mark [ E ] .
Be careful not to mix up these shafts .
Using a wrench on the crankshaft rotation bolt , turn the crankshaft clockwise until the 1 | T mark line on the timing rotor is aligned with the wating surface of the crankcase halves .
Pull the tension side ( exhaust side ) of the chain taut to install the chain .
Engage the camshaft chain with the camshaft sprockets so that the timing marks on the sprockets are positioned as shown .
The timing marks must be aligned with the cylinder head upper surface .
EX mark [ D ] ( Between # 1 Pin and # 2 Pin )
IN mark [ E ] ( Between # 31 Pin and # 32 Pin )
# 1 Pin [ F ]
# 2 Pin [ G ]
* If there is a problem with sound output , refer to the instruction manual of the connected D / A converter or amp to confirm format compatibility .
# 31 Pin [ H ]
The exhaust cap has a “ EX ” mark and the inlet cap has a IN mark .
Be careful not to mix up these caps .
First tighten all the camshaft cap bolts evenly to seat the camshaft in place , then tighten all bolts following the specified tightening sequence .
Install the cylinder ( see Cylinder Installation ) .
Camshaft , Camshaft Cap Wear
Cut strips of plastigage to journal width .
Place a strip on each journal parallel to the camshaft installed in the correct position .
Tighten the crankcase bolts to the specified torque ( see Crankcase Assembly ) .
Do not turn the camshaft when the plastigage is between the journal and camshaft cap .
* Set to 60958 when connecting to a device not compatible with PCM format signals .
Measure each clearance between the camshaft journal and the camshaft cap using plastigage ( press gauge ) .
If any clearance exceeds the service limit , measure the diameter of each camshaft journal with a micrometer .
If the camshaft journal diameter is less than the service limit , replace the camshaft with a new one and measure the clearance again .
If the clearance still remains out of the limit , replace the cylinder head unit .
Set the camshaft in a camshaft alignment jig or on V blocks .
Measure runout with a dial gauge at the specified place as shown .
If the runout exceeds the service limit , replace the shaft .
Cam Wear
Measure the height of each cam with a micrometer .
If the cams are worn down past the service limit , replace the camshaft .
* The up covert setting does not affect i . LINK output .
Cam Height
Camshaft Chain Removal
Split the crankcase ( see Crankcase Splitting in the Crankshaft / Transmission chapter ) .
Remove the camshaft chain from the crankshaft sprocket .
Cylinder Compression Measurement
Use the battery which is fully charged .
Warm up the engine thoroughly .
Attach the compression gauge and adapter firmly into the spark plug hole .
Using the starter motor , turn the engine over with the throttle fully open until the compression gauge stops rising ; the compression is the highest reading obtainable .
961 - 1,471 kPa ( 9.8 - 15.0 kgf / cm ² ) @ 400 r / min ( rpm )
RCA ( RCA output setting )
Repeat the measurement for the other cylinders .
Refer to the Spark Plug Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
The following table should be consulted if the obtainable compression reading is not within the usable range .
Problem
Diagnosis
Remedy ( Action )
Cylinder compression is higher than usable range
Carbon accumulation on piston and in combustion chamber possibly due to damaged valve stem oil seal and / or damaged piston oil rings ( This may be indicated by white exhaust smoke ) .
Remove the carbon deposits and replace damaged parts if necessary .
Incorrect cylinder head gasket thickness
Nut runner Unit Hyd . Cyl .
Replace the gasket with a standard part .
Cylinder compression is lower than usable range
Gas leakage around cylinder head
Replace damaged gasket and check cylinder head warp .
Bad condition of valve seating
Repair if necessary .
Incorrect valve clearance
Adjust the valve clearance .
Incorrect piston / cylinder clearance
Replace the piston and / or cylinder .
Sound is output from the RCA terminals during CD playback .
Piston seizure
Inspect the cylinder and replace / repair the cylinder and / or piston as necessary .
Bad condition of piston ring and / or piston ring grooves
Replace the piston and / or the piston rings .
Cylinder Head Removal
Exhaust Pipes ( see Exhaust Pipe Removal )
Camshafts ( see Camshaft Removal )
Throttle Body Assy ( see Throttle Body Assy Removal in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter )
Frame Cover ( see Frame Cover Removal in the Frame chapter )
Front Camshaft Chain Guide
There is no output from the RCA terminals .
Water Temperature Sensor Connector
Firstly remove the M6 cylinder head bolts and M6 cylinder bolts .
Secondly , remove the M8 bolts .
Thirdly , remove the M10 nut .
Fourthly , remove the M10 bolts [ D ] .
Cylinder Head Installation
The camshaft cap is machined with the cylinder head , so if a new cylinder head is installed , use the cap that is supplied with the new head .
Install a new cylinder head gasket and dowel pins .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to both sides of washers and the threads of bolts and nut .
M10 Cylinder Head Bolts
Select this setting when not using the RCA terminals .
M10 Cylinder Nut
M8 Cylinder Bolt [ D ]
Torque the all the bolts and nut following the tightening sequence [ 1 - 8 ] .
The tightening sequence No . 1 - No . 5 are the cylinder head bolts that are tightened between the cylinder head with the crankcase .
The No . 6 is the cylinder head bolt that is tightened between the cylinder head with the cylinder .
The No . 7 and No . 8 are the cylinder nut and cylinder bolt that are tightened between the cylinder and the crankcase .
Tighten the M6 cylinder head bolts and M6 cylinder bolts .
Install the front camshaft chain guide .
Insert the end of front camshaft chain guide into the hollow on the lower crankcase half .
Clean the cylinder head .
* The up convert setting does not affect output from the RCA terminals .
Lay a straightedge across the lower surface of the cylinder head at several positions .
Use a thickness gauge to measure the space between the straightedge and the head .
If the cylinder head is warped more than the service limit , replace it .
If the cylinder head is warped less than the service limit , repair the head by rubbing the lower surface on emery paper secured to a surface plate ( first No . 200 , then No . 400 ) .
Refer to Valve Clearance Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Refer to Valve Clearance Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Valve Removal
Remove cylinder head ( see Cylinder Head Removal ) .
Remove the valve lifter and shim .
Mark and record the valve lifter and shim locations so they can be installed in their original positions .
DAC ( D / A converter setting )
Using the valve spring compressor assembly , remove the valve .
Valve Installation
Replace the oil seal with a new one .
Apply engine oil to the oil seal lip .
Apply a thin coat of molybdenum disulfide grease to the valve stem before valve installation .
Install the springs so that the closed coil end faces downwards ( the side painted in green faces upwards ) .
Valve Stem
Oil Seal
Spring Seat
Closed Coil End [ D ]
Select the type of D / A converter being connected to .
Valve Spring [ E ]
Side Painted in Green [ F ]
Retainer [ G ]
Split Keepers [ H ]
Valve Guide Removal
Valve ( see Valve Removal )
Heat the area around the valve guide to 120 - 150 ° C , and hammer lightly on the valve guide arbor to remove the guide from the top of the head .
Do not heat the cylinder head with a torch .
This will warp the cylinder head .
Soak the cylinder head in oil and heat the oil .
Valve Guide Installation
Apply oil to the valve guide outer surface before installation .
Heat the area around the valve guide hole to about 120 - 150 ° C .
Drive the valve guide in from the top of the head using the valve guide arbor .
The flange stops the guide from going in too far .
Wait until the cylinder head cools down and then ream the valve guide with the valve guide reamer even if the old guide is reused .
Turn the reamer in a clockwise direction until the reamer turns freely in the guide .
Never turn the reamer counterclockwise or it will be dulled .
Once the guides are reamed they must be cleaned thoroughly .
Valve-to-Guide Clearance Measurement ( Wobble Method )
Select this setting when connecting to the Esoteric D-01 .
If a small bore gauge is not available , inspect the valve guide wear by measuring the valve to valve guide clearance with the wobble method as indicated below .
Insert a new valve into the guide and set a dial gauge against the stem perpendicular to it as close as possible to the cylinder head mating surface .
Move the stem back and forth to measure valve / valve guide clearance .
Repeat the measurement in a direction at a right angle to the first .
If the reading exceeds the service limit , replace the guide .
The reading is not actual valve / valve guide clearance because the measuring point is above the guide .
Valve / Valve Guide Clearance ( Wobble Method )
Valve Seat Inspection
Check the valve seating surface between the valve and valve seat .
Measure the outside diameter [ D ] of the seating pattern on the valve seat .
If the outside diameter is too large or too small , repair the seat ( see Valve Seat Repair ) .
Valve Seating Surface Outside Diameter
Measure the seat width [ E ] of the portion where there is no build-up carbon ( white portion ) of the valve seat with a vernier caliper .
Good [ F ]
If the width is too wide [ G ] , too narrow [ H ] or uneven [ J ] , repair the seat ( see Valve Seat Repair ) .
Valve Seating Surface Width
Valve Seat Repair
Repair the valve seat with the valve seat cutters .
For Exhaust Valve Seat
Valve Seat Cutter , 45 ° - & b . phis ; 30 :
Function & operation of hydraulic cylinder .
Select this setting when connecting to an Esoteric D / A converter other than the D-01 .
For Inlet Valve Seat
If the manufacturer ' s instructions are not available , use the following procedure .
Seat Cutter Operation Care
This valve seat cutter is developed to grind the valve for repair .
Therefore the cutter must not be used for other purposes than seat repair .
Do not drop or shock the valve seat cutter , or the diamond particles may fall off .
Do not fail to apply engine oil to the valve seat cutter before grinding the seat surface .
Also wash off ground particles sticking to the cutter with washing oil .
Do not use a wire brush to remove the metal particles from the cutter .
It will take off the diamond particles .
Others
Setting the valve seat cutter holder in position , operate the cutter in one hand .
Do not apply too much force to the diamond portion .
Prior to grinding , apply engine oil to the cutter and during the operation , wash off any ground particles sticking to the cutter with washing oil .
After use , wash it with washing oil and apply thin layer of engine oil before storing .
Marks Stamped on the Cutter
The marks stamped on the back of the cutter represent the following .
Cutter angle
Outer diameter of cutter
Operating Procedures
Clean the seat area carefully .
Select this setting when connecting to a D / A converter that is not an Esoteric D / A converter .
Coat the seat with machinist ' s dye .
Fit a 45 ° cutter into the holder and slide it into the valve guide .
Press down lightly on the handle and turn it right or left .
Grind the seating surface only until it is smooth .
Do not grind the seat too much .
Overgrinding will reduce valve clearance by sinking the valve into the head .
If the valve sinks too far into the head , it will be impossible to adjust the clearance , and the cylinder head must be replaced .
Measure the outside diameter of the seating surface with a vernier caliper .
If the outside diameter of the seating surface is too small , repeat the 45 ° grind until the diameter is within the specified range .
Widened Width of engagement by machining with 45 ° cutter
The ring around the button and the display lights when the unit is on .
Ground Volume by 32 ° cutter
Correct Width [ D ]
Ground Volume [ E ] by 60 ° or 55 ° cutter
° or 55 ° [ F ]
Original Seating Surface
Remove all pittings of flaws from 45 ° ground surface .
After grinding with 45 ° cutter , apply thin coat of machinist ' s dye to seating surface .
This makes seating surface distinct and 32 ° and 60 ° ( or 55 ° ) grinding operation easier .
When the valve guide is replaced , be sure to grind with 45 ° cutter for centering and good contact .
The disk tray slides out .
If the outside diameter of the seating surface is too large , make the 32 ° grind described below .
If the outside diameter of the seating surface is within the specified range , measure the seat width as described below .
Grind the seat at a 32 ° angle until the seat outside diameter is within the specified range .
To make the 32 ° grind , fit a 32 ° cutter into the holder , and slide it into the valve guide .
Turn the holder one turn at a time while pressing down very lightly .
Check the seat after each turn .
The 32 ° cutter removes material very quickly .
Check the seat outside diameter frequently to prevent overgrinding .
After making the 32 ° grind , return to the seat outside diameter measurement step above .
To measure the seat width , use a vernier caliper to measure the width of the 45 ° angle portion of the seat at several places around the seat .
* The tray opens after a few seconds ( this delay is normal and due to the movement of internal mechanisms in the unit before opening ) .
If the seat width is too narrow , repeat the 45 ° grind until the seat is slightly too wide , and then return to the seat outside diameter measurement step above .
If the seat width is too wide , make the 60 ° or 55 ° grind described below .
If the seat width is within the specified range , lap the valve to the seat as described below .
Grind the seat at a 60 ° or 55 ° angle until the seat width is within the specified range .
To make the 60 ° or 55 ° grind , fit 60 ° or 55 ° cutter into the holder , and slide it into the valve guide .
Turn the holder , while pressing down lightly .
After making the 60 ° or 55 ° grind , return to the seat width measurement step above .
Correct Width
Lap the valve to the seat , once the seat width and outside diameter are within the ranges specified above .
Put a little coarse grinding compound on the face of the valve in a number of places around the valve head .
[ 3 ] Place the disc in the disc tray with the label side up .
Spin the valve against the seat until the grinding compound produces a smooth , matched surface on both the seat and the valve .
Repeat the process with a fine grinding compound .
Lapper
Valve Seat
Valve
The seating area should be marked about in the middle of the valve face .
If the seat area is not in the right place on the valve , check to be sure the valve is the correct part .
If it is , it may have been refaced too much ; replace it .
Be sure to remove all grinding compound before assembly .
When the engine is assembled , be sure to adjust the valve clearance ( see Valve Clearance Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
ensure the disc is placed in the center tray recess to avoid malfunction or jamming of the tray .
Cylinder Removal
Cylinder Head ( see Cylinder Head Removal )
Front Engine Mounting Bolts ( Both Side ) ( see Engine Removal in the Engine Removal / Installation chapter )
Front Engine Brackets ( Both Side ) ( see Engine Removal in the Engine Removal / Installation chapter )
Cylinder
Cylinder Installation
If a new cylinder is used , use new piston ring .
Install the dowel pins and new cylinder gasket .
The piston ring openings must be positioned as shown in the figure .
The openings of the oil ring steel rails must be about 30 - 40 ° of angle from the opening of the top ring .
The disc tray closes .
Top Ring
Second Ring
Oil Ring Steel Rails
Oil Ring Expander [ D ]
Hollow [ E ]
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the cylinder bore , piston rings and piston .
Prepare two auxiliary head bolts with their head cut .
Install the two bolts diagonally in the crankcase .
Position the crankshaft so that all the piston heads are almost level .
Take care to avoid pinching your fingers in the moving tray .
Install the cylinder block .
Insert the piston rings with your thumbs .
Piston Removal
Remove the cylinder ( see Cylinder Removal ) .
Place a clean cloth under the pistons and remove the piston pin snap ring from the outside of each piston .
Remove the piston pins .
Center Bolt
Shall of Piston
Remove the pistons .
Carefully spread the ring opening with your thumbs and then push up on the opposite side of the ring to remove it .
Hose and pipe work for leaks .
* The unit reads the disk , which takes some time .
Remove the 3-piece oil ring with your thumbs in the same manner .
Piston Installation
Spread the rail with your thumbs , but only enough to fit the rail over the piston .
Release the rail into the bottom piston ring groove .
The oil ring rails have no “ top ” or “ bottom ” .
Do not mix up the top and second ring .
Install the top ring so that the " R " mark faces up .
Install the second ring so that the " RN " mark [ D ] faces up .
If a new piston is used , use new piston ring .
Install the piston with its marking hollow facing forward .
Playback starts .
Fit a new piston pin snap ring into the side of the piston so that the ring opening does not coincide with the slit of the piston pin hole .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the piston pins and piston journals .
When installing the piston pin snap ring , compress it only enough to install it and no more .
Do not reuse snap rings , as removal weakens and deforms them .
They could fall out and score the cylinder wall .
Cylinder Wear
Since there is a difference in cylinder wear in different directions , take a side-to-side and a front-to-back measurement at each of the two locations ( total of four measurements ) shown in the figure .
If any of the cylinder inside diameter measurements exceeds the service limit , replace the cylinder .
Press the PLAY / PAUSE button to momentarily pause playback .
Piston Wear
Measure the outside diameter of each piston 18 mm up from the bottom of the piston at a right angle to the direction of the piston pin .
If the measurement is under service limit , replace the piston .
Piston Ring , Piston Ring Groove Wear
Check for uneven groove wear by inspecting the ring seating .
The rings should fit perfectly parallel to groove surfaces .
If not , replace the piston and all the piston rings .
With the piston rings in their grooves , make several measurements with a thickness gauge to determine piston ring / groove clearance .
Piston Ring / Groove Clearance
Piston Ring Groove Width
The indicator lights when playback is paused .
Measure the piston ring groove width .
Use a vernier caliper at several points around the piston .
If the width of any of the two grooves is wider than the service limit at any point , replace the piston .
Piston Ring Thickness
Measure the piston ring thickness .
Use the micrometer to measure at several points around the ring .
If any of the measurements is less than the service limit on either of the rings , replace all the rings .
When using new rings in a used piston , check for uneven groove wear .
The rings should fit perfectly parallel to the groove sides .
If not , replace the piston .
Press the PLAY / PAUSE button again to resume playback .
Piston Ring End Gap
Place the piston ring inside the cylinder , using the piston to locate the ring squarely in place .
Set it close to the bottom of the cylinder , where cylinder wear is low .
Measure the gap between the ends of the ring with a thickness gauge .
If the end gap of either ring is greater than the service limit , replace all the rings .
Throttle Body Holder Installation
Be sure to install the O-rings .
Install the clamps as shown and so that their projections fit on the holes of the holders .
Be sure that the clamp bolt heads [ D ] face outwards .
Muffler Body Removal
Press the STOP ( @ ) button to stop playback and the ring around the button and the display lights in blue .
To avoid a serious burn , do not remove the muffler when the engine is still hot .
Wait until the muffler cool down .
Right Footpeg Stay
Tighten the muffler body clamp bolts [ H ] .
Remove the muffler body mounting bolts and nut , and pull the muffler body backward .
Exhaust Pipe Removal
Muffler Body and Exhaust Pipe Installation
Replace the exhaust pipe gaskets and muffler body connection gasket with new ones and install them .
Install the muffler body connection gasket until it is bottomed so that the chamfer side feces muffler body [ D ] .
Run the oxygen sensor lead correctly ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Opening and closing the disc tray
Thoroughly warm up the engine , wait until the engine cools down , and retighten all the bolts and nuts .
Apply water .
Friction Plate Thickness
Friction Plate Warp
Steel Plate Warp
Clutch Spring Free Length
Special Tool and Sealant
Clutch Lever and Cable
Clutch Lever Free Play Inspection
Refer to Clutch Operation Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Press the OPEN / CLOSE button once to open ( or close ) the tray and press it a second time to close ( or open ) the tray .
Clutch Lever Free Play Adjustment
Clutch Cable Removal
Slide the dust cover at the middle of clutch cable out of place .
Loosen the locknut , and turn the adjusting nut to give the cable plenty of play .
Screw in the adjuster .
Line up the slots in the clutch lever and adjuster , and then free the cable from the lever .
Free the clutch inner cable tip from the clutch release lever .
Push the release lever toward the front of the motorcycle and tape the release lever to the clutch cover to prevent the release shaft from falling out .
Pull the clutch cable out of the frame .
Clutch Cable Installation
* It takes longer time for the tray to open when the OPEN / CLOSE button is pressed during playback .
Run the clutch cable correctly ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Adjust the clutch cable ( see Clutch Operation Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Clutch Cable Lubrication
Clutch Lever Installation
Install the clutch lever so that the mating surface of the clutch lever clamp is aligned with the punch mark .
Tighten the upper clamp bolt first , and then the lower clamp bolt .
There will be a gap at the lower part of the clamp after tightening .
The adjuster has 5 positions so that the clutch lever position can be adjusted to suit the operator ' s hand .
The distance from the grip to the lever is minimum at number 5 and maximum at number 1 .
Clutch Cover Removal
Selecting a track using the number buttons
Engine Oil ( drain , see Engine Oil Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter )
Turn the release lever toward the rear as shown , and remove the clutch cover .
About 90 °
Clutch Cover Installation
Apply silicone sealant to the area where the mating surface of the crankcase touches the clutch cover gasket and to the crankshaft sensor lead grommet .
Be sure that the dowel pins are in position .
Replace the clutch cover gasket [ D ] with a new one .
Tighten the clutch cover mounting bolts .
Release Shaft Removal
Do not remove the clutch release lever and shaft assembly unless it is absolutely necessary .
Connections for leaks and damage .
Playback starts from the selected track , regardless of whether the number is selected during playback or when playback is stopped or paused .
If removed , the oil seal replacement may be required .
Remove the clutch cover ( see Clutch Cover Removal ) .
Pull the lever and shaft assembly straight out of the clutch cover .
Release Shaft Installation
Apply high-temperature grease to the oil seal lips on the upper ridge of the clutch cover .
Apply engine oil to the needle bearings in the hole of the clutch cover .
Apply molybdenum disulfide grease to the pusher-holding portion on the release shaft .
Install the washer and spring .
Insert the release shaft straight into the upper hole of the clutch cover .
When inserting the release shaft , be careful not to remove the spring of the oil seal .
Press the SKIP button on the front panel or the remote control ( @ / @ ) during playback to skip to the next or previous track .
Fit the spring as shown .
Release Shaft
Clutch Cover Disassembly
Clutch Cover ( see Clutch Cover Removal )
Needle Bearings
Clutch Cover Assembly
Replace the needle bearings and oil seal with new ones .
Install the needle bearings so that the manufacture ’ s mark face out .
Install the needle bearings and oil seal position as shown .
Press the bearing so that the bearing surface [ D ] is flush with the housing end of clutch cover [ E ] .
* Press the @ button once to return to the beginning of the current track .
Apply water to the rubber of the oil gauge and press it so that the ring face outside .
Clutch Removal
Clutch Springs
Clutch Hub
Spacer
Remove the oil pump sprocket boat .
The oil pump sprocket bolt has a left-hand threads .
Using the hole , pull out the sleeve .
Remove the following as a set .
Clutch Housing [ D ]
Further presses of the @ button will take you further back .
Oil Pump Chain [ E ]
Oil Pump Sprocket [ F ]
Clutch Installation
Install the following parts on the drive shaft .
Put the oil pump chain on the clutch housing gear and the oil pump sprocket .
Housing
Oil Pump Cover
Apply engine oil to the bearing .
Align [ E ] the hole on the oil pump sprocket with the oil pump shaft .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the oil pump chain guide bolts and tighten them .
Note that pressing the @ button when 1 second or less of the current track has been played will move playback to the previous track .
Install the washer so that the OUTSIDE mark faces outward .
Replace the clutch hub nut with a new one .
Install the friction plates and steel plates , starting with a friction plate and alternating them .
If new dry friction plates and steel plates are installed , apply engine oil to the surfaces of each plate to avoid clutch plate seizure .
For the first steel plate , its thickness is 2.6 mm . The others are 2.3 mm .
Install the last friction plate fitting the tangs in the grooves in the housing as shown .
Install the clutch cover ( see Clutch Cover Installation ) .
Clutch Plate , Wear , Damage Inspection
Visually inspect the friction and steel plates for signs of seizure , overheating ( discoloration ) , or uneven wear .
Measure the thickness of each friction plate at several points .
* Pressing the @ / @ button when playback is paused or stopped , pauses or stops playback at the beginning of the selected track .
If any plates show signs of damage , or if they have worn past the service limit , replace them with new ones .
Clutch Plate Warp Inspection
Place each friction plate or steel plate on a surface plate and measure the gap between the surface plate and each friction plate or steel plate with a thickness gauge .
The gap is the amount of friction or steel plate warp .
Clutch Spring Free Length Measurement
Measure the free length of the clutch springs .
If any spring is shorter than the service limit , it must be replaced .
Clutch Housing Finger Inspection
Visually inspect the clutch housing fingers where the friction plate tangs hit them .
If they are badly worn or if there are groove cuts where the tangs hit , replace the housing .
Forward and backward scanning
Also , replace the friction plates if their tangs are damaged .
Clutch Housing Spline Inspection
Visually inspect where the teeth on the steel plates wear against the clutch hub splines .
If there are notches worn into the splines , replace the clutch hub .
Also , replace the steel plates if their teeth are damaged .
Engine Oil Flow Chart
Between upper and lower level lines
Oil Pressure Measurement
Oil Pressure
216 - 294 kPa ( 2.2 - 3.0 kgf / cm ² ) @ 4,000 r / min ( rpm ) , oil temperature .
Press the SCAN button ( @ / @ ) during playback to scan forward and backward .
Oil Pressure Gauge Adapter , PT3 / 8 19 / in . :
Engine Oil and Oil Filter
Check that the engine oil level is between the upper and lower levels in the gauge .
If the engine oil gets extremely low or if the oil pump or oil passages clog up or otherwise do not function properly , the oil pressure warning light will light .
If this light stays on when the engine is running above idle speed , stop the engine immediately and find the cause .
If the oil level is too high , remove the excess oil , using a syring or some other suitable device .
If the oil level is too low , add the correct amount of oil through the oil filter opening .
Use the same type and make of oil that is already in the engine .
If the engine oil type and make are unknown , use any brand of the specified oil to top off the level in preference to running the engine with the oil level low .
Then at your earliest convenience , change the oil completely .
Press the PLAY button ( @ ) to play a track you wish to listen to .
Refer to Engine Oil Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Refer to Oil Filter Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Oil Pan
Oil Pan Removal
Exhaust Pipe ( see Exhaust Pipe Removal in the Engine Top End chapter )
Muffler Body ( see Muffler Body Removal in the Engine Top End chapter )
Remove the mounting bolts and lower fairing .
Remove the following from the oil pan as necessary .
Filter Plate
Filter
Repeated presses of the SCAN buttons ( @ / @ ) sequentially changes the scanning speed .
Remove the following from the lower crankcase half as necessary .
Oil Screen
Oil Pipe Plate
Oil Pipes [ D ]
Bolt [ E ]
Oil Pan Installation
Apply grease to the O-rings on the oil pipes .
Install the oil pipe plate so that its guide portion fits the breather pipe [ D ] as shown .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the oil pipe plate bolt .
Apply grease to the O-ring on the oil screen and install it on the lower crankcase half as shown .
Nut runner Unit Switches
There are three speeds :
Replace the oil pan gasket with a new one .
When installing the oil pan , align the damper on the breather pipe with the hollow on the oil pan .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads of the stator coil bolts and tighten them .
Oil Pressure Relief Valve Removal
Oil Pressure Relief Valve [ E ]
Oil Pressure Relief Valve Installation
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads [ G ] of the oil pressure relief valve , and tighten it .
Do not apply too much non-permanent locking agent to the threads .
This may block the oil passage .
Oil Pressure Relief Valve Inspection
@ : Fast forward ( 1 ) - > Fast forward ( 2 ) - > Fast forward ( 3 ) - > normal playback speed
Check to see if the valve slides smoothly when pushing it in with a wooden or other soft rod , and see if it comes back to its seat by spring pressure .
Inspect the valve in its assembled state .
Disassembly and assembly may change the valve performance .
If any rough spots are found during above inspection , wash the valve clean with a high-flash point solvent and blow out any foreign particles that may be in the valve with compressed air .
Clean the oil pressure relief valve in a well-ventilated area , and take care that there is no spark or flame anywhere near the working area .
Because of the danger of highly flammable liquids , do not use gasoline or low-flash point solvent .
If cleaning does not solve the problem , replace the oil pressure relief valve as an assembly .
The oil pressure relief valve is precision made with no allowance for replacement of individual parts .
Oil Pump
Oil Pump Removal
@ : Fast backward ( 1 ) - > Fast backward ( 2 ) - > Fast backward ( 3 ) - > normal playback speed
Clutch ( see Clutch Removal in the Clutch chapter )
Inner Rotor for Scavenge Pump
Outer Rotor for Scavenge Pump
Pin
Outer Rotor for Feed Pump
Oil Pump Installation
Apply molybdenum disulfide grease to the portion of the oil pump shaft , as shown .
Oil Pump Body [ G ]
Outer Rotor [ J ] for Scavenge Pump
The scavenge pump rotors are wider than the feed pump rotors .
* Holding down the SKIP button ( @ / @ ) of the main unit 1 second or longer during playback changes the fast forward / backward speed .
Dowel Pin
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the oil pump cover bolts and tighten them .
Start the engine and warm up the engine .
Run the engine at the specified speed , and read the oil pressure gauge .
If the oil pressure is much lower than the standard , check the oil pump , relief valve , and / or crankshaft bearing insert wear immediately .
If the reading is much higher than the standard , check the oil passages for clogging .
Remove the oil pressure gauge and adapter .
Take care against burns form hot engine oil that will drain through the oil passage when the gauge adapter is removed .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the oil passage plug , and install it .
Oil Pressure Switch Removal
Selection the playback area
Switch Cover
Switch Terminal Bolt
Oil Pressure Switch Installation
Apply silicone sealant to the threads of the oil pressure switch and tighten it .
Apply a small amount grease to the terminal so that grease should not close the holes of the switch cover .
Collar
Engine Mounting Brackets
Engine Removal
Support the rear part of the swingarm with a stand .
Squeeze the brake lever slowly and hold it with a band .
* To change the playback area , press the MENU button for 2 seconds or more while playback is stopped .
Be sure to hold the front brake when removing the engine , or the motorcycle may fall over .
It could cause an accident and injury .
The engine or the motorcycle could be damaged .
Drain :
Engine Oil ( see Engine Oil Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter )
Coolant ( see Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter )
Center Fairing ( see Center Fairing Removal in the Frame chapter )
Side Covers ( see Side Covers Removal in the Frame chapter )
Frame Covers ( see Frame Cover Removal in the Frame chapter )
Radiator and Hoses ( see Radiator and Radiator Fan Removal in the Cooling System chapter )
* For hybrid discs , the setting of whether to prioritize playback of the Super Audio CD layer or the CD layer can also be made in advance using the LAYER ( priority playback area ) setting mode .
Water Temperature Sensor Lead Connector
Alternator Lead Connector
Sidestand Switch Lead Connector [ E ]
Speed Sensor Lead Connector [ F ]
Engine Sprocket ( see Engine Sprocket Removal in the Final Drive )
Shift Lever
Support the engine with a stand or jack .
Run the leads , cables , and hoses correctly ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Clutch Cable ( see Clutch Operation Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter )
Drive Chain ( see Drive Chain Slack Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter )
* By setting sound output with the remote control ‘ s 2CH / MULTI button , the selected area will be read first when reading a disc that contains both Super Audio CD multi-channel and 2 ‧ channel stereo .
Fill the engine with engine oil ( see Engine Oil Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Adjust the idling ( see Idle Speed Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Crankshaft , Connecting Rclip
Connecting Rod Bend
TIR 0.2 / 100 mm
Connecting Rod Twist
Connecting Rod Big End Side Clearance
Connecting Rod Big End Bearing Insert / Crankpin Clearance
Crankpin Diameter :
Marking :
* If the Super Audio CD 2-channel area is selected , “ SACD 2ch ” will be displayed and the L and R channel indicators will light .
None
Connecting Rod Big End Inside Diameter :
Connecting Rod Big End Bearing Insert Thickness :
Connecting Rod Big End Bearing Insert Selection :
Con-rod Big End Bore Diameter Marking
Crankpin Diameter Marking
Bearing Insert
Size Color
Connecting Rod Bolt Stretch :
New Connecting Rod
If the Super Audio CD multi-channel area is selected , “ SACD Multi “ will be displayed and all channel indicators will light .
Used Connecting Rod
Crankshaft Side Clearance
Crankshaft Runout
Crankshaft Main Bearing Insert / Journal Clearance
Crankshaft Main Journal Diameter :
Crankcase Main Bearing Inside Diameter :
Crankshaft Main Bearing Insert Thickness :
Crankshaft Main Bearing Insert Selection :
Crankcase Main Bearing Inside Diameter Marking
Crankshaft Main Journal Diameter Marking
Fastenings and condition of stops & screws
If the CD area is selected , “ CD Area “ will be displayed and the channel indicators will not light .
The bearing inserts for Nos .
1 , 2 and 3 journals have oil grooves .
Balancer Shaft
Balancer Shaft Bearing Insert / Journal Clearance
Balancer Shaft Journal Diameter :
Crankcase Bearing Bore Diameter :
Balancer Shaft Bearing Insert Thickness :
Balancer Shaft Bearing Insert Selection :
Crankcase Bearing Bore Diameter Marking
Balancer Shaft Journal Diameter Marking
1,2 journals have oil grooves .
Shift Fork Ear Thickness
Gear Groove Width
Shift Fork Guide Pin Diameter
Shift Drum Groove Width
Special Tools and Sealants
Crankcase Splitting
Engine ( see Engine Removal in the Engine Removal / Installation chapter )
Pistons ( see Piston Removal in the Engine Top End chapter )
Stater Motor ( see Starter Motor Removal in the Electrical System chapter )
Press to select 2ch ( 2-channel stereo ) or MULTI ( multi-channel surround ) audio output .
Alternator Rotor ( see Alternator Rotor Removal in the Electrical System chapter )
Transmission Assy ( see Transmission Assy Removal )
Remove the upper crankcase bolts ( M8 ) and the washers .
Remove the oil pan , relief valve , oil screen and oil pipes ( see Oil Pan Removal in the Engine Lubrication System chapter ) .
Tap lightly around the crankcase mating surface with a plastic mallet , and split the crankcase .
Take care not to damage the crankcase .
If the oil pie is to be removed , follow the next procedure .
Unscrew the bolts and remove the oil pipe .
Prepare a & b . phis ; 5 mm rod , and insert it to the hole of the upper crankcase half .
Remove the oil pipe , tapping the rod as shown .
If the breather plate is to be removed , follow the next procedure .
Remove the oil pipe ( see above ) .
Cut the gasket around the plate .
Breather Plate with Pipe
Crankcase Assembly
The upper and lower crankcase halves are machined at the factory in the assembled state , so the crankcase halves must be replaced as a set .
With a high-flash point solvent , clean off the mating surfaces of the crankcases halves and wipe dry .
Using compressed air , blow out the oil passages in the crankcase halves .
If the oil plate on the upper crankcase half was removed , install it as shown .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the oil plate bolts and torque them .
This mode outputs 2-channel stereo sound .
9.8 N · m ( 1.0 N · m )
When the new needle bearing is installed in the shift shaft cover , press and insert the new needle bearing until it is bottomed .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads of the starter motor clutch bolts and tighten them .
Apply silicone sealant to the breather plate mating surface 1 mm or more thick , and then install the breather plate .
Make the application finish within 7 minutes when the liquid gasket to the mating surface of the breather plate is applied .
Moreover fit the plate and tighten the bolts just after application of the liquid gasket .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads and tighten the bolts .
Install the breather pipe .
Align the white mark on the pipe with the white mark on the breather fittling .
Install the clamp [ D ] so that the pinch portions [ E ] face the white marks .
During playback of multi-channel data on a Super Audio CD , the multi-channel data is downmixed to stereo ( front left and right channels ) .
Install the oil pipe so that its flange touches to the surface of the upper crankcase half .
Apply grease to the O-ring [ D ] on the oil pipe .
Install the crankshaft assembly and the balancer shaft assembly on the upper crankcase half .
Align the timing mark on the balancer gear with the timing mark on the balancer drive gear of the crankshaft .
Be sure to hang the camshaft chain on the crankshaft .
Set the bearing groove on the positioning ring as shown .
Apply liquid gasket to the mating surface of the lower crankcase half .
Especially , apply a liquid gasket carefully so that it shall be filled up on the grooves .
Do not apply liquid gasket around the crankshaft main bearing inserts , and oil passage holes .
Do not apply liquid gasket to the oil passage .
( The DOWN MIX indicator on the display lights . ) To select the playback area , press the PLAY AREA button after the disc loaded .
Fit the lower crankcase half to the upper crankcase half .
Insert the breather pipe on the upper crankcase half through the hole on the lower crankcase half .
Make the application finish within 20 minutes when the liquid gasket to the mating surface of the lower crankcase half is applied .
Moreover fit the case and tighten the case bolts just after finishing the application of the liquid gasket .
The M9 bolts [ 1 - 6 ] ( see the next figure ) have copper plated washers .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to both sides of the M9 bolts washers and the threads of the M9 bolts .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to flange and the threads of the M8 bolts which is tightening order is [ 7 - 10 ] only ( see the next figure ) .
Tighten the lower crankcase bolts using the following steps .
Following the sequence numbers on the lower crankcase half , tighten the M9 bolts [ 1 , 2 ] L = 113 mm with washers .
Tighten the M9 bolts [ 3 , 4 ] L = 83 mm with washers .
Select this mode to listen to 2-channel stereo .
Tighten the M9 bolts [ 5 , 6 ] L = 113 mm with washers .
Tighten the M8 bolts [ 7 - 10 ] .
Tighten the M8 bolts ( Do not apply molybdenum oil solution ) .
Tighten the M6 bolts .
Tighten the upper crankcase bolts .
After tightening all crankcase bolts , check the following items .
Crankshaft and balancer shafts turn freely .
Crankshaft and Connecting Rclip
Crankshaft Removal
Split the crankcase ( see Crankcase Splitting ) .
Crankshaft Installation
If the crankshaft , bearing inserts , or crankcase halves are replaced with new ones , select the bearing inserts and check clearance with a plastigage ( press gauge ) before assembling engine to be sure the correct bearing inserts are installed .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the crankshaft main bearing inserts .
Install the crankshaft with the camshaft chain hanging on it .
Connecting Rod Removal
Remove the connecting rod nuts .
Mark and record the locations of the connecting rclip and their big end caps so that they can be reassembled in their original positions .
Remove the connecting rclip from the crankshaft .
Discard the connecting rod bolts .
To prevent damage to the crankpin surfaces , do not allow the connecting rod bolts to bump against the crankpins .
This mode outputs discrete 5.1 -channel audio .
Connecting Rod Installation
To minimize vibration , the connecting rclip should have the same weight mark .
Big End Cap
Connecting Rod
Weight Mark , Alphabet
Δ : Crankpin Diameter Marks , “ ” or no mark .
If the connecting rclip , big end bearing inserts , or crankshaft are replaced with new ones , select the bearing insert and check clearance with a plastigage ( press gauge ) before assembling engine to be sure the correct bearing inserts are installed .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the inner surfaces of upper and lower bearing inserts .
The molybdenum disulfide oil solution is a mixture of engine oil and molybdenum disulfide grease with a weight ratio ( 10 :
Do not apply any grease or oil to the cap inside and cap insert outside .
Function & position of proximity switches
Select this mode when the P-05 is used with three D-05 units or with a multi-channel D / A converter and an i . LINK connection .
Install the inserts so that their nails [ D ] are on the same side and fit them into the recess of the connecting rod and cap .
Wrong application of oil and grease could cause bearing damage .
When installing the inserts , be careful not to damage the insert surface with the edge of the connecting rod or the cap .
One way to install inserts is as follows :
Installation [ D ] to Cap
Installation [ E ] to Connecting Rod
Push [ F ]
Spare Dowel Pin [ G ]
Connecting Rod Bolts [ H ]
Remove debris and clean the surface of inserts .
To select the playback area , press the PLAY AREA button after the disc loaded .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution [ MO ] to the threads and seating surfaces of the big end nuts and bolts .
Install the crankshaft ( see Crankshaft Installation ) .
Install each connecting rod on its original crankpin .
Install each connecting rod so that its oil jet faces the exhaust side ( the front ) ( see Engine Oil Flow Chart in the Engine Lubrication System chapter ) .
Install the cap on the connecting rod , aligning the weight and diameter marks .
The connecting rod big end is bolted using the “ plastic region fastening method ” .
This method precisely achieves the needed clamping force without exceeding it unnecessarily , allowing the use of thinner , lighter bolts further decreasing connecting rod weight .
There are two types of the plastic region fastening .
One is a bolt length measurement method and other is a rotation angle method .
Observe one of the following two , but the bolt length measurement method is preferable because this is a more reliable way to tighten the big end nuts .
* The “ @ ” indicator lights when “ Multi ch ” is selected .
The connecting rod bolts are designed to stretch when tightened .
Never reuse the connecting rod bolts .
See the table below for correct bolt and nut usage .
Be careful not to overtighten the nuts .
The bolts must be positioned on the seating surface correctly to prevent the bolt heads from hitting the crankcase .
( 1 ) Bolt Length Measurement Method
Be sure to clean the bolts , nuts , and connecting rclip thoroughly with a high-flash point solvent , because the new connecting rclip , bolts , and nuts are treated with an anti-rust solution .
Clean the bolts , nuts , and connecting rclip in a well-ventilated area , and take care that there is no spark or flame anywhere near the working area .
This includes any appliance with a pilot light .
Because of the danger of highly flammable liquids , do not use gasoline or low-flash point solvents to clean them .
* You cannot select the mode during playback .
Immediately dry the bolts and nuts with compressed air after cleaning .
Clean and dry the bolts and nuts completely .
Install new bolts in reused connecting rclip .
Dent both bolt head and bolt tip with a punch as shown .
Before tightening , use a point micrometer to measure the length of new connecting rod bolts and record the values to find the bolt stretch .
Mark here with a punch .
Nuts [ D ]
Fit micrometer pins into punch marks [ E ] .
Apply a small amount of molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the following :
Threads of Nuts and Bolts
REPEAT TRK ( repeat the track )
Seating Surfaces of Nuts and Con-rclip
Tighten the big end nuts until the bolt elongation reaches the length specified in the table .
Check the length [ F ] of the connecting rod bolts .
If the stretch is more than the usable range , the bolt has stretched too much .
An overelongated bolt may break in use .
Bolt Length
after tightening
before tightening
Bolt Stretch
Connecting Rod Assy
REPEAT DSC ( repeat the whole disc )
Nut
Usable Range of Connecting Rod Bolt Stretch
New
Use the bolts attached to new con-rod .
Attached to new con-rod
Used
Replace the bolts with new ones .
( 2 ) Rotation Angle Method
If you don ' t have a point micrometer , you may tighten the nuts using the “ Rotation Angle Method ” .
Be sure to clean the bolts and nuts thoroughly with a high-flash point solvent , because the new bolts and nuts are treated with an anti-rust solution .
REPEAT TRK ( Track repeat )
Clean the bolts and nuts in a well-ventilated area , and take care that there is no spark or flame anywhere near the working area .
Because of the danger or highly flammable liquids , do not use gasoline or low-flash point solvents to clean them .
First , tighten the nuts to the specified torque .
See the table below .
Next , tighten the nuts 120 ° ± 5 ° .
Mark the connecting rod big end caps and nuts so that nuts can be turned 120 ° properly .
Torque + Angle
Crankshaft / Connecting Rod Cleaning
After removing the connecting rclip from the crankshaft , clean them with a high-flash point solvent .
Repeats the currently selected track .
Blow the crankshaft oil passages with compressed air to remove any foreign particles or residue that may have accumulated in the passages .
Remove the connecting rod big end bearing inserts , and reinstall the connecting rod big end cap .
Select an arbor of the same diameter as the connecting rod big end , and insert the arbor through the connecting rod big end .
Select an arbor of the same diameter as the piston pin and at least 100 mm long , and insert the arbor through the connecting rod small end .
On a surface plate , set the big-end arbor on V block .
With the connecting rod held vertically , use a height gauge to measure the difference in the height of the arbor above the surface plate over a 100 mm length to determine the amount of connecting rod bend .
If connecting rod bend exceeds the service limit , the connecting rod must be replaced .
With the big-end arbor still on V block , hold the connecting rod horizontally and measure the amount that the arbor varies from being paralleled with the surface plate over a 100 mm length of the arbor to determine the amount of connecting rod twist .
If connecting rod twist exceeds the service limit , the connecting rod must be replaced .
Measure connecting rod big end side clearance .
When another track is selected during repeat playback , this track repeats .
Insert a thickness gauge between the big end and either crank web to determine clearance .
If the clearance exceeds the service limit , replace the connecting rod with new one and then check clearance again .
If clearance is too large after connecting rod replacement , the crankshaft also must be replaced .
Connecting Rod Big End Bearing Insert / Crankpin Wear
Measure the bearing insert / crankpin clearance with plastigage .
Tighten the big end nuts to the specified torque ( see Connecting Rod Installation ) .
Do not move the connecting rod and crankshaft during clearance measurement .
After measurement , replace the connecting rod bolts .
If the clearance is within the standard , no bearing replacement is required .
If the clearance is between 0.037 mm and the service limit ( 0.07 mm ) , replace the bearing inserts with inserts painted blue .
REPEAT DSC ( Disc repeat )
Check insert / crankpin clearance with the plastigage .
The clearance may exceed the standard slightly , but it must not be less than the minimum in order to avoid bearing seizure .
If the clearance exceeds the service limit , measure the diameter of the crankpins .
Crankpin Diameter
If any crankpin has worn past the service limit , replace the crankshaft with a new one .
If the measured crankpin diameters are not less than the service limit , but do not coincide with the original diameter markings on the crankshaft , make new marks on it .
Crankpin Diameter Marks
Measure the connecting rod big end inside diameter , and mark each connecting rod big end in accordance with the inside diameter .
Tighten the connecting rod big end nuts to the specified torque ( see Connecting Rod Installation ) .
The mark already on the big end should almost coincide with the measurement .
Nut runner Unit THK Rails & Bearings
Repeats all the tracks on the disc .
Connecting Rod Big End Inside Diameter Marks
Diameter Mark ( Around Weight Mark ) [ D ] :
Select the proper bearing insert in accordance with the combination of the connecting rod and crankshaft coding .
Con-rod Big End Inside Diameter Marking
Install the new inserts in the connecting rod and check insert / crankpin clearance with the plastigage .
Insert a thickness gauge between the crankcase main bearing and the crank web at the No . 2 journal to determine clearance .
If the clearance exceeds the service limit , replace the crankcase halves as a set .
Measure the crankshaft runout .
If the measurement exceeds the service limit , replace the crankshaft .
Crankshaft Main Bearing Insert / Journal Wear
* Halting playback stops the repeat mode .
Using a plastigage ( press gauge ) , measure the bearing insert / journal clearance .
Do not turn the crankshaft during clearance measurement .
Journal clearance less than 0.025 mm can not be measured by plastigage , however , using genuine parts maintains the minimum standard clearance .
Check insert / journal clearance with the plastigage .
If the clearance exceeds the service limit , measure the diameter of the crankshaft main journal .
Crankshaft Main Journal Diameter
If any journal has worn past the service limit , replace the crankshaft with a new one .
If the measured journal diameters are not less than the service limit , but do not coincide with the original diameter markings on the crankshaft , make new marks on it .
Crankshaft Main Journal Diameter Marks
Crankshaft Main Journal Diameter Marks , “ 1 ” or no mark .
Use the FL DIMMER button to select any of the following brightness levels for the display and button indicators .
Measure the main bearing inside diameter , and mark the upper crankcase half in accordance with the inside diameter .
Crankcase Main Bearing Inside Diameter Marks , “ ” mark or no mark
The mark already on the upper crankcase half should almost coincide with the measurement .
Crankcase Main Bearing Inside Diameter Marks
[ A ] No . 1 Journal
[ B ] No . 2 Journal
[ C ] No . 3 Journal
Select the proper bearing insert in accordance with the combination of the crankcase and crankshaft coding .
1 , 2 and 3 journals have oil groove .
Install the new inserts in the crankcase halves and check insert / journal clearance with the plastigage .
FL Dimmer3 ( normal brightness )
Balancer Removal
Pull the balancer shaft with the balancer gear out of the crankcase .
Balancer Installation
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the inside of the balancer shaft bearing insert .
Assemble the crankcase ( see Crankcase Assembly ) .
Measure the bearing insert / journal clearance using a plastigage .
Split the crankcase and wipe each bearing insert and journal surface clean of oil .
Cut strips of plastigage to bearing insert width , and place a strip on each journal parallel to the balancer shaft so that the plastigage will be compressed between the journal and the bearing insert .
Install the lower crankcase half , and tighten the case bolts to the specified torque ( see Crankcase Assembly ) .
Do not turn the balancer shaft during clearance measurement .
Remove the lower crankcase half and measure the plastigage width to determine the bearing insert / journal clearance .
If the clearance is within the standard , no bearing insert replacement is required .
If the clearance is between 0.050 mm and the service limit ( 0.09 mm ) , replace the bearing inserts with inserts painted blue Check insert / journal clearance with a plastigage .
If the clearance exceeds the service limit , measure the diameter of the balancer shaft journal .
Balancer Shaft Journal Diameter
If either journal has worn past the service limit , replace the balancer shaft with a new one .
If the measured journal diameters are not less than the service limit , but do not coincide with the original diameter markings on the balancer shaft , write new marks on it .
Balancer Shaft Diameter Marks
Balancer Shaft Journal Diameter Marks , " " mark or no mark .
Put the lower crankcase half on the upper crankcase half without bearing inserts , and tighten the case bolts to the specified torque and sequence ( see Crankcase Assembly ) .
* Note that turning off the unit cancels the OFF setting .
Measure the crankcase bearing bore diameter for the balancer shaft , and mark the upper crankcase half in accordance with the bore diameter .
Crankcase Bearing Bore Diameter Marks
Crankcase Bearing Bore Diameter Marks , “ ” mark or no mark .
Select the proper bearing insert in accordance with the combination of the crankcase and the balancer shaft coding .
Install the new inserts in the crankcase and check insert / journal clearance with a plastigage .
Balancer Shaft Bearing Insert Selection
Crankcase Main Bearing Bore Diameter Mark
Crankshaft Main Journal Diameter Mark
Shift Pedal Removal
Shift Lever Bolt
The display uses the Dimmer 1 setting when the unit is turned on next time .
Footpeg
Shift Rclip
Shift Pedal Installation
Apply grease to the oil seal .
Apply grease to the sliding area of the sidestand .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the right handlebar weight bolt .
Align the mark on the shift shaft with the slit on the shift lever .
Tighten the shift lever bolt securely .
Be sure the shift pedal position is as shown .
Shift Pedal Damper
* Pressing a button when the display mode is set to OFF lights the display for about 3 seconds .
External Shift Mechanism Removal
Neutral Switch Lead Connector ( Disconnect )
Remove the shift shaft assembly .
External Shift Mechanism Installation
Install the gear positioning lever as shown .
Spacer [ D ]
Fook the spring at gear positioning lever , pushing up [ F ] the fook portion , as shown .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the gear positioning lever bolt and torque it .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the rubbing surface between the lever and pawl and move them two or three times up and down to lubricate them .
Be sure that the washer is on the shaft .
Use the DISPLAY button during playback or when playback is stopped to select the display modes described below .
Be sure that the spring hook portions are as shown .
When the new oil seal is installed in the shift cover , press and insert the new oil seal so that its surface is flush with the end of the hole .
Install the shift shaft cover .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the shift shaft cover screw and bolts [ B , C ] and torque them .
Do not apply a non-permanent locking agent to the shift shaft cover bolts [ D , E ] .
External Shift Mechanism Inspection
Examine the shift shaft for any damage .
If the shaft is bent , straighten or replace it .
If the serration are damaged , replace the shaft .
If the springs are damaged in any way , replace them .
* The display shows “ total number of disc tracks ” and “ total playback time ” when playback is stopped .
If the shift mechanism arm [ D ] is damaged in any way , replace the arm .
Check the return spring pin is not loose .
If it is loose , unscrew it , apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads , and tighten it .
Check the gear positioning lever and its spring for breaks or distortion .
If the lever or spring are damaged in any way , replace them .
Visually inspect the shift drum cam .
If they are badly worn or if they show any damage , replace it .
Transmission Assy Removal
Shift Shaft Assembly ( see External Shift Mechanism Removal )
Neutral Switch Holder Bolt
Rails & Bearings for wear or damage .
Restoring factory default settings
Neutral Switch Holder and Pin
Shift Drum Holder and Pin
O-ring
If the transmission assy is to be disassembed , remove the following .
Shift Rod Plate
Pull the transmission assy out of the crankcase .
Transmission Assy Installation
Apply grease to the O-ring on the oil pipe .
Install the transmission assy on the crankcase .
Set the gear positioning lever to the neutral position .
Made settings persist on a semipermanent basis even when the power plug is disconnected .
Check that the drive and output shaft turn freely .
Shift Drum Holder
Neutral Switch Holder [ D ]
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the neutral switch holder screw and torque it .
Apply grease to the O-ring and install its position on the output shaft .
Install the collar .
Transmission Assy Disassembly
Remove the transmission assy ( see Transmission Assy Removal ) .
Remove the following from the transmission case .
Shift Forks
Use the following procedure to clear all settings and restore the unit to the factory defaults .
Drive Shaft [ D ]
Output Shaft [ E ]
Shift Drum and Pin
Shift Drum
Transmission Assy Assembly
When the new ball bearings are installed in the transmission case , press and insert them until they are bottomed .
Install the following on the transmission case .
Shift Drum Cam [ D ]
Align the pin with the hole on the shift drum cam .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the shift drum cam bolt and torque it .
Turn the unit off and wait 30 seconds or longer .
Install the following as a set .
Drive Shaft [ F ]
Output Shaft [ G ]
Install the forks as shown .
Position the one [ H ] with shortest ears on the drive shaft and place the pin in the center groove in the shift drum .
The two forks [ J ] on the output shaft are identical .
Install the shift rclip , noting the groove position .
The rod [ K ] length of the output shaft side is shorter than the rod [ L ] length of the drive shaft side .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the transmission gears shown with X marks [ M ] .
Be sure that the spacer [ P ] is on the output shaft .
Press the POWER switch while holding down the STOP button .
Transmission Shaft Removal
Transmission Shaft Installation
Transmission Shaft Disassembly
Remove the transmission shafts ( see Transmission Shaft Removal ) .
Remove the circlips , disassemble the transmission shafts .
The 5th gear on the output shaft has three steel balls assembled into it for the positive neutral finder mechanism .
Remove the 5th gear .
Set the output shaft in a vertical position holding the 3rd gear .
Spin the 5th gear quickly and pull it off upward .
Transmission Shaft Assembly
Hold down the STOP button until the unit is powered up and the display lights .
Apply engine oil to the bushings , needle bearings and shafts .
Install the gear bushings on the shaft with their holes aligned .
Replace any circlips removed with new ones .
Install the circlips so that the opening is aligned with a spline groove .
Be sure that all parts are put back in the correct sequence and all circlips and washers are properly in place .
Install the 3rd / 4th gear onto the drive shaft with their oil holes aligned .
Install the 6th gear bushing onto the drive shaft with their oil holes aligned .
Install the 5th and 6th gears onto the output shaft with their oil holes aligned .
Install the 3rd / 4th gear bushings onto the output shaft with their oil holes aligned .
Fit the steel balls into the 5th gear holes in the output shaft , aligning three oil holes [ D ] .
Severe hum or noise is heard .
5th Gear
Output Shaft
Steel Balls
Do not apply grease to the balls to hold them in place .
This will cause the positive neutral finder mechanism to malfunction .
After assembling the 5th gear with steel balls in place on the output shaft , check the ball-locking effect that the 5th gear doesn ’ t come out of the output shaft when moving it up and down by hand .
Check that each gear spins or slides freely on the transmission shafts without binding after assembly .
Drive shaft
1st Gear
2nd Gear
- > ensure the line cords and speaker cables are as far away from the AC supply as possible .
3rd Gear
4th Gear
6th ( Top ) Gear
Toothed Washer , & b . phis ; 34 mm
Circlip
Thrust Washer , & b . phis ; 30 mm
Spacer , & b . phis ; 39 mm
Washer , & b . phis ; 40 mm
Shim , & b . phis ; 28 mm
Steel Ball
- > Check the digital output setting .
Circlip , & b . phis ; 32.2 mm
Shift Drum and Fork Removal
Shift Drum and Fork Installation
Shift Drum Disassembly
Shift Drum Assembly
Shift Fork Bending
Visually inspect the shift forks , and replace any fork that is bent .
A bent fork could cause difficulty in shifting , or allow the transmission to jump out of gear when under power .
Shift Fork / Gear Groove Wear
Measure the thickness of the shift fork ears , and measure the width of the gear grooves .
- > The sound is muted during pause and fast forward / reverse .
If the thickness of a shift fork ear is less than the service limit , the shift fork must be replaced .
If the gear groove is worn over the service limit , the gear must be replaced .
Shift Fork Guide Pin / Drum Groove Wear
Measure the diameter of each shift fork guide pin , and measure the width of each shift drum groove .
If the guide pin on any shift fork is less than the service limit , the fork must be replaced .
If any shift drum groove is worn over the service limit , the drum must be replaced .
Gear Dog and Gear Dog Hole Damage
Visually inspect the gear dogs and gear dog holes .
Replace any damaged gears or gears with excessively worn dogs or dog holes .
Ball Bearing , Needle Bearing , and Oil Seal
The spindle travels 30mm after receiving the command from the system .
Audit Hyd Cylinder
Press the PLAY button to resume normal playback .
Ball and Needle Bearing Replacement
Do not remove the ball or needle bearings unless it is necessary .
Removal may damage them .
Using a press or puller , remove the ball bearing and / or needle bearings .
In the absence of the above mentioned tools , satisfactory results may be obtained by heating the case to approximately 93 ° C max . , and tapping the bearing in or out .
Do not heat the case with a torch .
This will warp the case .
Soak the case in oil and heat the oil .
Using a press and the bearing driver set , install the new ball bearing until it stops at the bottom of its housing .
The new needle bearings must be pressed into the crankcase so that the end is flush with the end of the hole .
No digital output from a Super Audio CD
Ball and Needle Bearing Wear
Do not remove the bearings for inspection .
Check the ball bearings .
Since the ball bearings are made to extremely close tolerances , the wear must be judged by feel rather than measurement .
Clean each bearing in a high-flash point solvent , dry it ( do not spin the bearing while it is dry ) , and oil it with engine oil .
Spin the bearing by hand to check its condition .
If the bearing is noisy , does not spin smoothly , or has any rough spots , replace it .
Check the needle bearings .
The rollers in a needle bearing normally wear very little , and wear is difficult to measure .
Instead of measuring , inspect the bearing for abrasion , color change , or other damage .
- > Digital audio output from a Super Audio CD requires an Esoteric ES-LINK compliant D / A converter ( D-05 , D-03 or D ‧ 01 ) or a D / A converter with i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminals .
If there is any doubt as to the condition of a needle bearing , replace it .
Oil Seal Inspection
Inspect the oil seals .
Replace it if the lips are misshapen , discolored ( indicating that the rubber has deteriorated ) , hardened or otherwise damaged .
Wheels ( Rims )
Axle Runout / 100 mm
Wheel Balance
Balance Weights
Standard Tires :
- > Output of multi-channel audio requires that the unit is connected to a multi-channel compliant D / A converter via the i . LINK terminal ( AUDIO ) and that “ 2ch / Multi ” is set to “ Multi ch ” .
Make , Type
DUNLOP , SPORTMAX RADIAL D221FA
DUNLOP , SPORTMAX D221
Bearing Remover Head , & b . phis ; 20 & b . phis ; 22 :
Bearing Remover Shaft , & b . phis ; 13 :
Front Wheel Removal
Brake Caliper Mounting Bolts
Front Brake Calipers
Loosen :
The WORD indicator flashes .
Axle Clamp Bolt
Raise the front wheel off the ground with jack .
Pull out the axle to the right and drop the front wheel out of the forks .
Do not lay the wheel on the ground with the discs facing down .
This can damage or warp the disc . Place wooden blocks under the wheel so that the disc does not touch the ground .
Front Wheel Installation
The direction of the wheel rotation is shown by an arrow on the wheel spoke .
Check the wheel rotation mark on the front wheel and install it .
Apply high-temperature grease to the grease seal lips .
Fit the collars on the both sides of the hub .
- > An incompatible signal is input .
Insert the front axle , and tighten the axle .
Before tightening the axle clamp bolt on the right front fork leg , pump the front fork up and down 4 or 5 times to allow the right front fork leg to seat on the front axle .
Put a block in front of the front wheel to stop moving .
Tighten the axle clamp bolt .
Install the lower fairing ( see Lower Fairing Installation in the Frame chapter ) .
Install the front brake calipers ( see Caliper Installation in the Brakes chapter ) .
Check the front brake effectiveness ( see Brake Operation Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Rear Wheel Removal
Rear Brake Caliper
Axle Nut
Check word sync connections and the settings made on connected devices .
Remove the drive chain from the rear sprocket toward the left .
Move the rear wheel back and remove it .
Rear Wheel Installation
Engage the drive chain with the rear sprocket .
Install the caliper bracket onto the swingarm stop .
Adjust the drive chain slack after installation ( see Drive Chain Slack Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Install the rear brake caliper ( see Caliper Installation in the Brakes chapter ) .
Check the rear brake effectiveness ( see Brake Operation Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Do not attempt to drive the motorcycle until a full brake pedal is obtained by pumping the brake pedal until the pads are against the disc . The brake will not function on the first application of the pedal if this is not done .
Wheel Inspection
- > No word clock is being received .
Raise the front / rear wheel off the ground with jack .
Spin the wheel lightly , and check for roughness or binding .
If roughness or binding is found , replace the hub bearings .
Inspect the wheel for small cracks , dents , bending , or warp .
If there is any damage to the wheel , replace the wheel .
Remove the wheel , and support it without the tire by the axle .
Measure the rim runout , axial and radial , with a dial gauge .
If rim runout exceeds the service limit , check the hub bearings .
If the problem is not due to the bearings , replace the wheel .
Never attempt to repair a damaged wheel .
Check connections to the external master clock generator , its power supply and output status .
If there is any damage besides wheel bearings , the wheel must be replaced to insure safe operational condition .
Axle Inspection
Remove the front and rear axles ( see Front / Rear Wheel Removal ) .
Visually inspect the front and rear axle for damages .
If the axle is damaged or bent , replace it .
Place the axle in V blocks that are 100 mm apart , and set a dial gauge on the axle at a point halfway between the blocks .
Turn the axle to measure the runout .
If axle runout exceeds the service limit , replace the axle .
Balance Inspection
Remove the front and rear wheels ( see Front / Rear Wheel Removal ) .
The display shows “ Word Error ” .
Support the wheel so that it can be spun freely .
Spin the wheel lightly , and mark the wheel at the top when the wheel stops .
Repeat this procedure several times .
If the wheel stops of its own accord in various positions , it is well balanced .
If the wheel always stops in one position , adjust the wheel balance ( see Balance Adjustment ) .
Balance Adjustment
If the wheel always stops in one position , provisionally attach a balance weight on the rim at the marking using adhesive tape .
Rotate the wheel 1 / 4 turn , and see whether or not the wheel stops in this position .
If it does , the correct balance weight is being used .
If the wheel rotates and the weight goes up , replace the weight with the next heavier size .
Fastening & condition of rod end and block .
- > The unit is unable to lock to the input word sync signal .
If the wheel rotates and the weight goes down , replace the weight with the next lighter size .
Repeat these steps until the wheel remains at rest after being rotated 1 / 4 turn .
Rotate the wheel another 1 / 4 turn and then another 1 / 4 turn to see if the wheel is correctly balanced .
Repeat the entire procedure as many times as necessary to achieve correct wheel balance .
Permanently install the balance weight .
Balance Weight Removal
Insert a regular tip screwdrivers between the rib and the weight [ D ] as shown .
Pry the balance weight with two screwdrivers and remove the balance weight .
Discard the used balance weight .
Do not tap the screwdrivers .
Check the settings of connected devices .
The rim could be damaged .
Balance Weight Installation
Check if the weight portion has any play on the blade and clip .
If it does , discard it .
If the balance weight has any play on the rib of the rim , the blade and / or clip have been stretched .
Replace the loose balance weight . Do not reuse used balance weight .
Unbalanced wheels can create an unsafe riding condition .
Balance Weight
Balance weights are available from Kawasaki dealers in 10 , 20 , and 30 grams sizes .
An imbalance of less than 10 grams will not usually affect running stability .
The display shows “ TRAY ERR ! ” when the disc tray is opened or closed .
Do not use four or more balance weight ( more than 90 gram ) .
If the wheel requires an excess balance weight , disassemble the wheel to find the cause .
Slip the balance weight onto the rib by pushing or lightly hammering the clip [ D ] .
Left Side [ E ]
Right Side [ F ]
Be sure to install the balance weight .
Check that the blade and clip are fully seated on the rim and that the clip is hooked over the rib [ D ] .
Air Pressure Inspection / Adjustment
Tire Inspection
Refer to the Wheel / Tire Damage Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
- > A “ TRAY ERR ! ” appears when the disc tray stops during opening / closing because of an obstacle in front of the tray or because the disc has not been properly loaded .
Tire Removal
Wheel ( see Front / Rear Wheel Removal )
Valve Core ( Let out the air )
To maintain wheel balance , mark the valve stem position on the tire with chalk so that the tire can be reinstalled in the same position .
Chalk Mark or Yellow Mark
Air Valve
Align
Lubricate the tire beads and rim flanges on both sides with a soap and water solution or rubber lubricant .
This helps the tire beads slip off the rim flanges .
Never lubricate with engine oil or petroleum distillates because they will deteriorate the tire .
Remove the cause of the error and press the OPEN / CLOSE button once more .
Remove the tire from the rim using a suitable commercially available tire changer .
The tires cannot be removed with hand tools because they fit the rims too tightly .
Tire Installation
Inspect the rim and tire , and replace them if necessary .
Clean the sealing surfaces of the rim and tire , and smooth the sealing surfaces of the rim with a fine emery cloth if necessary .
Remove the air valve and discard it .
Replace the air valve whenever the tire is replaced .
Do not reuse the air valve .
Install a new valve in the rim .
Remove the valve cap , lubricate the stem seal with a soap and water solution or rubber lubricant , and pull the valve stem through the rim from the inside out until it snaps into place .
Remove the cause of the error and press the OPEN / CLOSE button .
Do not use engine oil or petroleum distillates to lubricate the stem because they will deteriorate the rubber .
The air valve is shown in the figure .
Valve Cap
Valve Core
Stem Seal
Valve Stem [ D ]
Valve Seat [ E ]
Valve Opened [ F ]
Check the tire rotation mark on the front and rear tires and install them on the rim accordingly .
Tire Rotation Mark
Remove the cause of the error and press the OPEN / CLOSE button again to open or close the tray .
Rotating Direction
Position the tire on the rim so that the valve align with the tire balance mark ( the chalk mark made during removal , or the yellow paint mark on a new tire ) .
Install the tire bead over the rim flange using a suitable commercially available tire changer .
Lubricate the tire beads and rim flanges with a soap and water solution or rubber lubricant to help seat the tire beads in the sealing surfaces of the rim while inflating the tire .
Center the rim in the tire beads , and inflate the tire with compressed air until the tire beads seat in the sealing surfaces .
Be sure to install the valve core whenever inflating the tire , and do not inflate the tire to more than 400 kPa ( 4.0 kgf / cm ² ) .
Overinflation can explode the tire with possibility of injury and loss of life .
Check to see that the rim lines on both sides of the tire sidewalls are parallel with the rim flanges .
If the rim flanges and tire sidewall rim lines are not parallel , remove the valve core .
Lubricate the rim flanges and tire beads .
Press the OPEN / CLOSE button again to open or close the tray .
Install the valve core and inflate the tire again .
After the tire beads seat in the rim flanges , check for air leakage .
Inflate the tire slightly above standard inflation .
Use a soap and water solution or submerge the tire , and check for bubbles that would indicate leakage .
Adjust the air pressure to the specified pressure ( see Air Pressure Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Adjust the wheel balance ( see Balance Adjustment ) .
Tire Repair
Currently two types of repair for tubeless tires have come into wide use .
One type is called a temporary ( external ) repair which can be carried out without removing the tire from the rim , and the other type is called permanent ( internal ) repair which requires tire removal .
It is generally understood that higher running durability is obtained by permanent ( internal ) repairs than by temporary ( external ) ones .
To open or close the tray , press the OPEN / CLOSE button again .
Also , permanent ( internal ) repairs have the advantage of permitting a thorough examination for secondary damage not visible from external inspection of the tire .
For these reasons , Kawasaki does not recommend temporary ( external ) repair .
Only appropriate permanent ( internal ) repairs are recommended .
Repair methclip may vary slightly from make to make .
Follow the repair methclip indicated by the manufacturer of the repair tools and materials so that safe results can be obtained .
Hub Bearing
Hub Bearing Removal
Remove the wheel ( see Front / Rear Wheel Removal ) , and take out the following .
Collars
Coupling ( Out of rear hub )
Digital Audio Output
Grease Seals
Use the bearing remover to remove the hub bearings .
Hub Bearing Installation
Before installing the hub bearings , blow any dirt or foreign particles out of the hub with compressed air to prevent contamination of the bearings .
Replace the bearings with new ones .
Install the bearings so that the marked side faces out .
Install the bearings by using the bearing driver set which does not contact the bearing inner race .
Press in each bearing right until they are bottomed .
Replace the grease seals with new ones .
Press in the grease seals so that the seal surface is flush with the end of the hole .
Audit Cylinder Switches
Use 2 terminals for ES-LINK or Dual AES output
Hub Bearing Inspection
Since the hub bearings are made to extremely close tolerances , the clearance can not normally be measured .
Do not remove any bearings for inspection .
If any bearings are removed , they will need to be replaced with new ones .
Turn each bearing in the hub back and forth while checking for plays , roughness or binding .
If bearing play , roughness or binding is found , replace the bearing .
Examine the bearing seal for tears or leakage .
If the seal is torn or is leaking , replace the bearing .
Hub Bearing Lubrication
Since the hub bearings are packed with grease and sealed , lubrication is not required .
i . LINK ( AUDIO ) output ( 4-pin ) x 1
Apply heavy oil .
Sprockets
Rear Sprocket Warp
Refer to the Drive Chain Slack Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Refer to the Drive Chain Slack Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Wheel Alignment Inspection / Adjustment
Refer to the Wheel Alignment Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Refer to the Drive Chain Wear Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Refer to the Drive Chain Lubrication Condition Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
RCA coaxial output x 1
Drive Chain Removal
Since the drive chain is installed through the swingarm , the chain cannot be removed other than by cutting it .
Prepare the new link pin , link plate , grease seals , and tools for rejoining the chain .
Using a suitable tool , cut the drive chain by removing the link pins .
Recommended Tool :
EK Joint Tool # 50
Read the Tool Manual before removing .
Body
Cutting and Riveting Pin
For Cutting [ D ]
The main unit can accept and synchronize to the following frequencies received from external devices
For Riveting [ E ]
Plate Holder ( a ) [ F ]
Plate Holder ( b ) [ G ]
Gauge [ H ]
Grind the pin head to make it flat .
Set the cutting and riveting pin as shown .
Screw the pin holder until it touches chain pin .
Be sure that the cutting pin hits center of chain pin .
Screw the handlebar into body .
Turn the pin holder with wrench clockwise to extract chain pin .
44.1 kHz , 88.2 kHz , 100kHz , 176.4 kHz ( rectangular wave )
Drive Chain Installation
Engage the new drive chain to the old drive chain and pull the end of the old drive chain until they are changing the position .
Remove the old drive chain from the new drive chain .
Apply grease to the link pins and grease seals .
Engage the drive chain on the rear sprocket through the swingarm .
Insert the link pins in the drive chain ends .
Install the grease seals .
Install the link plate so that the mark [ D ] faces out .
Push the link plate by hand or plier to fix it .
In case of grease seal chain , be sure to set the grease seals correctly .
Input frequency range ± 15 ppm
Set the plate holder ( a ) and plate holder ( b ) on the body .
Fit the plate holder ( a ) to link plate .
Turn the pin holder by hand until plate holder ( b ) touches the other link plate .
Turn the pin holder by wrench clockwise until two pins of link come into groove of plate holder ( a ) .
Take off the plate holder ( a ) .
Set the plate holder ( b ) and cutting and riveting pin as shown .
Turn the pin holder until riveting pin touches link pin .
Turn the wrench clockwise until tip of riveting pin hits of link pin .
Rivet it .
Same work for the other link pin .
This unit is ready for i . LINK ( AUDIO ) .
After staking , check the staked area of the link pin for cracks .
Measure the outside diameter of the link pin and link plates width .
Link Pin Outside Diameter
Link Plates Outside Width
If the reading exceeds the specified length , cut and rejoin the chain again .
Adjust the drive chain slack after installing the chain ( see Drive Chain Slack Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Sprocket , Coupling
Engine Sprocket Removal
Engine Sprocket Cover Bolts
Engine Sprocket Cover
You can transmit Super Audio CD multi-channel signals that could not be transmitted but in analog format in the past now in its original digital format .
Speed Sensor Bracket
Flatten out the bended washer .
Remove the engine sprocket nut and washer .
When loosening the engine sprocket nut , hold the rear brake on .
Loosen the drive chain ( see Drive Chain Slack Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Remove the drive chain from the rear sprocket toward the right .
Pull the engine sprocket with drive chain off the output shaft .
Disengage the drive chain from the engine sprocket .
Engine Sprocket Installation
Install the engine sprocket so that “ OUTSIDE ” letters face outward .
If you connect an i . LINK ( AUDIO ) -capable device to the IEEE 1394 ( or i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal on this unit using an i . LINK cable , you can transmit Super Audio CD multi-channel signals in its original digital format .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the threads of the output shaft and seating surface of the engine sprocket nut .
Tighten the engine sprocket nut while applying the rear brake .
After torquing the engine sprocket nut , bend the one side of the washer over the nut .
Install the engine sprocket cover , and tighten the bolts .
Adjust the drive chain slack after installing the sprocket ( see Drive Chain Slack Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Rear Sprocket Removal
Remove the rear wheel ( see Rear Wheel Removal in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) .
Remove the rear sprocket nuts .
Remove the rear sprocket .
Rear Sprocket Installation
By connecting an i . LINK ( AUDIO ) -capable device to the IEEE 1394 ( or i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal on this unit using an i . LINK cable , you can transmit in its original digital format Super Audio CD multi-channel signals that could not be transmitted but in analog format in the past . In addition to the capability of transmitting 2-ch linear PCM data and multi-channel compressed audio signals .
Install the sprocket facing the tooth number marking outward .
Tighten the rear sprocket nuts .
Install the rear wheel ( see Rear Wheel Installation in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) .
Coupling Installation
Apply high-temperature grease to the coupling grease seal lips .
Apply grease to the coupling internal surface .
Coupling Bearing Removal
Coupling
Grease Seal
Remove the bearing by tapping from the wheel side .
Function & condition of switch
By connecting an i . LINK ( AUDIO ) -capable device to the IEEE 1394 ( or i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal on this unit using an i . LINK cable , you can transmit Super Audio CD multi-channel signals .
Coupling Bearing Installation
Replace the bearing with a new one .
Press in the bearing until it is bottomed .
Replace the circlip with a new one .
Replace the grease seal with a new one .
Press in the grease seal so that the seal surface is flush with the end of the hole .
Coupling Bearing Inspection
Since the coupling bearing is made to extremely close tolerances , the clearance can not normally be measured .
It is not necessary to remove the coupling bearing for inspection .
If the bearing is removed , it will need to be replaced with a new one .
By connecting an i . LINK ( AUDIO ) -capable device to the IEEE 1394 ( or i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal on this unit using an i . LINK cable , you can transmit Super Audio CD multi-channel signals and enjoy the music you like .
Turn the bearing in the coupling back and forth while checking for plays , roughness or binding .
If the bearing play , roughness or binding is found , replace the bearing .
Coupling Bearing Lubrication
Since the coupling bearing is packed with grease and sealed , lubrication is not required .
Coupling Damper Inspection
Remove the rear wheel coupling , and inspect the rubber dampers .
Replace the damper if it appears damaged or deteriorated .
Visually inspect the engine and rear sprocket teeth for wear and damage .
If the teeth are worn as illustrated , replace the sprocket , and inspect the drive chain wear ( see Drive Chain Wear Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Worn Tooth ( Engine Sprocket )
In addition , you need to add the capability of transmitting 2-ch linear PCM data and multi-channel compressed audio signals .
If a sprocket requires replacement , the chain is probably worn also .
When replacing a sprocket , inspect the chain .
Rear Sprocket Warp Inspection
Raise the rear wheel off the ground with stand so that it will turn freely .
Set a dial gauge against the rear sprocket near the teeth as shown , and rotate the rear wheel to measure the sprocket runout ( warp ) .
The difference between the highest and lowest dial gauge readings is the amount of runout ( warp ) .
If the runout exceeds the service limit , replace the rear sprocket .
Apply brake fluid .
Brake Lever , Brake Pedal
To play back audio sounds recorded on Super Audio CD or DVD discs using i . LINK , both the player and the D / A converter need to be ready for the copyright protection system DTCP ( Digital Transmission Content Protection ) .
5-way adjustable ( to suit rider )
Brake Lever Free Play
Non-adjustable
Pedal Free Play
Pedal Position
About 40 mm below top of footpeg
Brake Pads
Lining Thickness :
Thickness :
Runout
Apply every morning and after every shampoo on the scalp and massage .
Brake Fluid
Brake Lever Position Adjustment
The brake lever adjuster has 5 positions so that the brake lever position can be adjusted to suit the operator ' s hand .
Brake Pedal Position Inspection
Check that the brake pedal is in the correct position .
If it is incorrect , adjust the brake pedal position .
Brake Pedal Position Adjustment
Usually it is not necessary to adjust the pedal position , but always adjust it when the push rod locknut has been loosened .
Loosen the locknut and turn the push rod with the hex head to achieve the correct pedal position .
If the length shown is 70 ± 1 mm , the pedal position will be within the standard range .
Do not wash with soap ! Soap contains chemicals that may make parts stick .
Check the brake light switch operation ( see Brake Light Switch Operation Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
Brake Pedal Removal
Joint Pin
Rear Brake Light Switch Spring
Return Spring [ D ]
Remove the mounting bolt [ E ] and take out the brake pedal .
Brake Pedal Installation
Apply grease to the pivot shaft and install the washer .
Washer [ D ]
Hook the lower end of the rear brake light switch spring on the pedal hook .
Do not rinse ! Daily application recommended .
Hook the upper end of the return spring on the pedal hook .
Replace the cotter pin with a new one .
Insert the cotter pin and bend the pin ends .
Check the brake pedal position ( see Brake Pedal Position Inspection ) .
Calipers
Front Caliper Removal
Loosen the banjo bolt at the brake hose lower end , and tighten it loosely .
Unscrew the caliper mounting bolts , and detach the caliper from the disc .
Unscrew the banjo bolt and remove the brake hose [ D ] from the caliper ( see Brake Hose Removal / Installation ) .
If the caliper is to be disassembled after removal and if compressed air is not available , disassemble the caliper before the brake hose is removed ( see Front Caliper Disassembly ) .
Apply every morning and after every shampoo on the scalp and massage . Daily application recommended .
Rear Caliper Removal
Caliper Installation
Install the caliper and brake hose lower end .
Replace the washers on each side of hose fitting with new ones .
Bleed the brake line ( see Brake Line Bleeding ) .
Check the brake for good braking power , no brake drag , and no fluid leakage .
Do not attempt to drive the motorcycle until a full brake lever or pedal is obtained by pumping the brake lever or pedal until the pads are against the disc . The brakes will not function on the first application of the lever or pedal if this is not done .
Refer to the Caliper Rubber Parts Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Caliper Fluid Seal Damage
The fluid seal ( piston seal ) is placed around the piston to maintain clearance between the pad and the disc . If the seal is in a poor condition , it could lead the pad to wear excessively or the brake to drag , which may cause the temperature of the discs or the brake fluid to increase .
You need to shave every morning if you are going to attend a meeting .
Replace the fluid seal if it exhibits any of the conditions listed below .
Brake fluid leakage around the pad .
Brakes overheat .
Considerable difference in inner and outer pad wear .
Seal and piston are stuck together .
If the fluid seal is replaced , replace the dust seal as well .
Also , replace all seals every other time the pads are changed .
Rear Caliper Dust Boot and Friction Boot Damage
Check that the dust boot and friction boot are not cracked , worn , swollen , or otherwise damaged .
If they show any damage , replace it .
This unit is ready for DTCP .
Caliper Piston and Cylinder Damage
Visually inspect the pistons and cylinder surfaces .
Replace the caliper if the cylinder and piston are badly scores or rusty .
Rear Caliper Holder Shaft Wear
The caliper body must slide smoothly on the caliper holder shafts .
If the body does not slide smoothly , one pad will wear more than the other , pad wear will increase , and constant drag on the disc will raise brake and brake fluid temperature .
Check to see that the caliper holder shafts are not badly worn or stepped , and that the rubber friction boots are not damaged .
If the rubber friction boot is damaged , replace the rubber friction boot .
To replace the friction boot , remove the pads and the caliper bracket .
If the caliper holder shaft is damage , replace the caliper bracket .
Stamp Unit Slide Cylinder
For connection to an i . LINK-capable device , use a commercially available S400-compliant 6-pin i . LINK cable .
Front Brake Pad Removal
Remove the front caliper with the hose installed ( see Front Caliper Removal ) .
Draw out the holder shaft pin , and take off the holder shaft .
Remove the pad on the piston side .
Front Brake Pad Installation
Push the caliper pistons in by hand as far as they will go .
Install the anti-rattle spring in its correct position .
Install the pad on the piston side first , then install the other pad on the holder .
Install the front caliper ( see Caliper Installation ) .
Rear Brake Pad Removal
Connect devices having high transfer rate towards the source as far upriver as possible .
Remove the rear caliper with the hose installed ( see Rear Caliper Removal ) .
Rear Brake Pad Installation
Push the caliper piston in by hand as far as it will go .
Install the rear caliper ( see Caliper Installation ) .
Refer to the Brake Pad Wear Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Master Cylinder
Front Master Cylinder Removal
Remove the banjo bolt to disconnect the brake hose from the master cylinder ( see Brake Hose Removal / Installation ) .
Disconnect the front brake light switch connectors .
Unscrew the clamp bolts , and take off the master cylinder as an assembly with the reservoir , brake lever and brake switch installed .
Never connect devices that are not ready for i . LINK ( AUDIO ) to this unit .
Brake Lever Pivot Bolt and Locknut
Front Master Cylinder Installation
Install the front master cylinder so that the punch mark of the handlebar is aligned with the mating surface of the master cylinder clamp to level the reservoir .
The master cylinder clamp must be installed with the arrow mark upward .
Replace the washers on each side of the hose fitting with new ones .
Tighten the brake hose banjo bolt .
Rear Master Cylinder Removal
Pull off the joint pin while pressing down the brake pedal .
Unscrew the brake hose banjo bolt on the master cylinder ( see Brake Hose Removal / Installation ) .
Unscrew the master cylinder mounting bolts .
If you do , this unit and others may get out of order or be damaged .
Pull off the reservoir hose lower end , and drain the brake fluid into a container .
Rear Master Cylinder Installation
Tighten the following bolts .
Depress the brake pedal and then align the bolts holes of the master cylinder .
Refer to the Master Cylinder Rubber Parts Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Master Cylinder Inspection
Remove the master cylinders ( see Front / Rear Master Cylinder Removal ) .
Disassemble the front and rear master cylinders .
Check that there are no scratches , rust or pitting on the inner wall of each master cylinder and on the outside of each piston .
If a master cylinder or piston shows any damage , replace them .
* Chances are some i . LINK-capable devices will not respond to this unit ’ s command .
Inspect the primary cup and secondary cup [ D ] .
If a cup is worn , damaged softened ( rotted ) , or swollen , the piston assembly should be replaced to renew the cups .
If fluid leakage is noted at the brake lever , the piston assembly should be replaced to renew the cups .
Check the dust covers [ E ] for damage .
If they are damaged , replace them .
Check the piston return springs [ F ] for any damage .
If the springs are damaged , replace them .
Check that relief port [ G ] and supply port [ H ] are not plugged .
If the relief port becomes plugged , the brake pads will drag on the disc . Blow the ports clean with compressed air .
Brake Disc Removal
* The receiving device may not support the output modes of this unit .
Remove the wheel ( see Front / Rear Wheel Removal in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) .
Unscrew the mounting bolts , and take off the disc .
Remove the gaskets .
Brake Disc Installation
Replace the gaskets with new ones .
Install the brake disc on the wheel so that the marked side faces out .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads of the front and rear brake disc mounting bolts .
Brake Disc Wear
Measure the thickness of each disc at the point where it has worn the most .
If the disc has worn past the service limit , replace it .
Read through the instruction manual of devices you wish to connect before making connections .
Measuring Area
Brake Discs Thickness
Brake Disc Warp
Raise the wheel off the ground with jack ( see Front / Rear Wheel Removal in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) .
For front disc inspection , turn the handlebar fully to one side .
Set up a dial gauge against the disc as shown and measure disc runout , while turning the wheel by hand .
If runout exceeds the service limit , replace the disc .
Disc Runout
Refer to the Brake Fluid Level Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Refer to the Brake Fluid Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Connection in tree structure
Brake Line Bleeding
The brake fluid has a very low compression coefficient so that almost all the movement of the brake lever or pedal is transmitted directly to the caliper for braking action .
Air , however , is easily compressed .
When air enters the brake lines , brake lever or pedal movement will be partially used in compressing the air .
This will make the lever or pedal feel spongy , and there will be a loss in braking power .
Be sure to bleed the air from the brake line whenever brake lever or pedal action feels soft or spongy after the brake fluid is changed , or whenever a brake line fitting has been loosened for any reason .
The procedure to bleed the front brake line is as follows .
Bleeding the rear brake line is the same as for the front brake .
Fill the reservoir with fresh brake fluid to the upper level line in the reservoir .
Slowly pump the brake lever several times until no air bubbles can be seen rising up through the fluid from the holes at the bottom of the reservoir .
If you are using a device having three or more i . LINK connectors , you may want to get the connection branched out .
Bleed the air completely from the master cylinder by this operation .
Bleed the brake line and the caliper .
Repeat this operation until no more air can be seen coming out into the plastic hose .
Pump the brake lever until it becomes hard , and apply the brake and hold it .
Quickly open and close the bleed valve while holding the brake applied .
Release the brake .
The fluid level must be checked often during the bleeding operation and replenished with fresh brake fluid as necessary .
If the fluid in the reservoir runs completely out any time during bleeding , the bleeding operation must be done over again from the beginning since air will have entered the line .
Tap the brake hose lightly from the caliper to the reservoir for more complete bleeding .
First bleeding the right caliper then repeat the above steps for the left caliper .
This way of connection allows you to connect up to 17 devices including this unit .
Check the fluid level ( see Brake Fluid Level Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
After bleeding is done , check the brake for good braking power , no brake drag , and no fluid leakage .
When working with the disc brake , observe the precautions listed below .
Never reuse old brake fluid .
Do not use fluid from a container that has been left unsealed or that has been open for a long time .
Do not mix two types and brands of fluid for use in the brake .
This lowers the brake fluid boiling point and could cause the brake to be ineffective .
It may also cause the rubber brake parts to deteriorate .
Don ' t leave the reservoir cap off for any length of time to avoid moisture contamination of the fluid .
Don ' t change the fluid in the rain or when a strong wind is blowing .
Function & operation of pneumatic cylinder .
Except for the disc pads and disc , use only disc brake fluid , isopropyl alcohol , or ethyl alcohol for cleaning of the brake parts .
Oil spilled on any part will be difficult to wash off completely and will eventually deteriorate the rubber used in the disc brake .
When handling the disc pads or disc , be careful that no disc brake fluid or any oil gets on them .
Clean off any fluid or oil that inadvertently gets on the pads or disc with a high-flash point solvent .
Do not use one which will leave an oily residue .
Replace the pads with new ones if they cannot be cleaned satisfactorily .
Brake fluid quickly ruins painted surfaces ; any spilled fluid should be completely wiped up immediately .
If any of the brake line fittings or the bleed valve is opened at any time , the AIR MUST BE BLED FROM THE BRAKE LINE .
Brake Hose
Brake Hose Removal / Installation
English
Refer to the Brake Hose and Pipe Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Brake Hose Inspection
Parts Location
Take care not to short the leads that are directly connected to the battery positive ( + ) terminal to the chassis ground .
The electrical parts should never be struck sharply , as with a hammer , or allowed to fall on a hard surface .
Such a shock to the parts can damage them .
Color Codes :
Visually inspect the wiring for signs of burning , fraying , etc .
If any wiring is poor , replace the damaged wiring .
Road Conditions
Terminal Voltage :
About 0.05 - 0.07 V DC
Battery Terminal Voltage
Charge or replace battery .
Route the hoses correctly ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Remove the meter unit ( see Meter Unit Removal ) .
Unlock the hook to lift up the lid .
Pull out the main fuse from the starter relay with needle nose pliers .
Carry out fuse Installation
Carry out fuse Inspection
A soft cloth moistened with a diluted amount of household or window cleaner can be used to remove more stubborn dirt .
Inspect the fuse elements .
If the fuse has blown out , replace it .
Before replacing a blown fuse , always check the amperage in the affected circuits .
When the voltage is greater than the fuse rating , check the wiring and related components in case a short circuit has happened .
When the voltage is equal to the fuse rating , check the wiring and related components in case a short circuit has happened .
When the voltage is equal to or greater than the fuse rating , check the wiring and related components in case a short circuit has happened .
When the amperage is equal to or greater than the fuse rating , check the wiring and related components for a short circuit .
Fuse Element
Terminals
Blown Element [ D ]
When replacing a fuse , be sure the new fuse matches the specified fuse rating for that circuit .
Installation of a fuse with a higher rating may cause damage to wiring and components .
Front Fork ( Per One Unit )
Fork Inner Tube Outside Diameter
Atmospheric pressure ( Non-adjustable )
Fork Spring Setting
Fork Oil :
Amount
approx . 390 mL ( when changing oil )
± 4 mL ( after disassembly and completely dry )
Displays current input , sampling frequency , etc . ( see page 11 )
Fork Oil Level
Fork Spring Free Length
277.8 mm ( Service limit 272 mm )
Gas Pressure
980 kPa ( 10 kgf / cm ² , Non-adjustable )
Oil Seal & Bearing Remover :
Fork Oil Seal Driver , & b . phis ; 41 :
Stem Bearing Driver , & b . phis ; 28 :
Spacer , & b . phis ; 28 :
Adjuster Position
You can use the P-05 remote control .
Damping Force
Load
Weak
Soft
Light
Low
Strong
Hard
Heavy
Bad
Press to engage the setup mode .
Front Wheel ( see Front Wheel Removal in the Wheels / Tires chapter )
Loosen the upper fork clamp bolt and fork top plug beforehand if the fork leg is to be disassembled .
Loosen the top plug after loosening the upper fork clamp bolt .
Loosen the upper fork clamp bolt and lower fork clamp bolts .
With a twisting motion , work the fork leg down and out .
Front Fork Installation
Tighten the top plug before tightening the upper fork clamp bolt .
Remove the front fork ( see Front Fork Removal ) .
Damper [ D ]
Fork Spring [ D ]
When changing oil :
approx . 390 mL
After disassembly and completely dry :
458 ± 4 mL
Wait until the oil level stabilizes .
Oil Level ( fully compressed , without spring )
Install the washer .
Check the top plug O-ring and replace it with a new one .
Install the front fork ( see Front Fork Installation ) .
Front Fork Disassembly
Super Audio CD / CD transport
Drain the fork oil ( see Front Fork Oil Change ) .
Do not drop the meter unit .
Separate the inner tube from the outer tube .
Install the retaining ring into the outer tube .
Front Fork Assembly
Replace the following parts with new ones .
Outer Guide Bushing
Dust Seal
Retaining Ring
Hold the front fork horizontally in a vise .
Stamp Unit Slide Guides & Bushes
Pour in the specified type of oil ( see Front Fork Oil Change ) .
Visually inspect the inner tube , and repair any damage .
Nicks or rust damage can sometimes be repaired by using a wet-stone to remove sharp edges or raised areas which cause seal damage .
If the damage is not repairable , replace the inner tube .
Since damage to the inner tube damages the oil seal , replace the oil seal whenever the inner tube is repaired or replaced .
Excessive bending , followed by subsequent straightening , can weaken the inner tube .
Temporarily assemble the inner and outer tubes , and pump them back and forth manually to check for smooth operation .
If you feel binding or catching , the inner and outer tubes must be replaced .
A straightened inner or outer fork tube may fall in use , possibly causing an accident .
Replace a badly bent or damaged inner or outer tube and inspect the other tube carefully before reusing it .
Dust Seal Inspection
Inspect the dust seal for any signs of deterioration or damage .
Replace it if necessary .
If the free length of the replacement spring and that of the remaining spring vary greatly , the remaining spring should also be replaced in order to keep the fork legs balanced to ensure stability .
Using the hook wrench , turn the adjusting nut to adjust the spring preload .
The standard adjuster setting for average-build rider of 68 kg ( 150 Ib ) with no passenger and no accessories is 3rd position .
Spring Preload Setting
Standard Position :
Adjustable Range :
1st - 7th position )
If the G-0Rb / G-03X is used , connect the WORD CLOCK OUT terminal on the G-0Rb / G- 03X to the WORD SYNC IN terminal on the P-05 .
If the compression of the spring is not suited to the operating conditions , adjust it to an appropriate position by referring to the table below .
Shock Absorber Hardness
Driving Speed
7th
Highway
Rear Shock Absorber Removal
Raise the rear wheel off the ground with jack .
Be sure to hold the front brake when removing the shock absorber , or the motorcycle may tall over .
Upper Shock Absorber Bolt
Lower Shock Absorber Nut and Washer
Lower Shock Absorber Bolt
Remove the shock absorber from backward .
Rear Shock Absorber Installation
Be sure to install the oil seals to the shock absorber .
Apply grease to the lip of the oil seals .
Install the footpeg stay .
Remove the rear shock absorber ( see Rear Shock Absorber Removal ) .
Visually inspect the following items .
Smooth Stroke
Oil Leakage
Clock generator etc . ,
Crack or Dent
If there is any damage to the rear shock absorber , replace it .
Visually inspect the rubber bushing .
If it show any signs of damage , replace it .
Swingarm Removal
Rear Wheel ( see Rear Wheel Removal in the Wheels / Tires chapter )
Brake Hose Clamps
Unscrew the swingarm pivot shaft nut .
Pull off the pivot shaft , and remove the swingarm .
Swingarm Installation
Be sure to install the oil seal and collar to the swingarm .
Tighten the pivot shaft nut .
Swingarm Bearing Removal
Swingarm ( see Swingarm Removal )
Oil Seals
Sleeve
Circlip [ D ]
Remove the ball bearing and needle bearings .
Swingarm Bearing Installation
Replace the ball and needle bearings with new ones .
To input a digital signal from a Super Audio CD , connect to an Esoteric CD transport ( P-01 / P-03 / P-05 ) using an i . LINK cable .
Install the ball and needle bearings so that the manufacturer ' s marks face out .
Install the needle bearings , ball bearing and oil seals position as shown .
0.5 mm [ H ]
23.5 mm [ J ]
Swingarm Bearing , Sleeve Inspection
Analog audio output terminals ( LINE OUT )
Inspect the needle bearings and ball bearing installed in the swingarm .
The rollers and ball in a bearing normally wear very little , and wear is difficult to measure .
Instead of measuring , visually inspect the bearing for abrasion , discoloration , or other damage .
If the needle bearing and sleeve show any sings of abnormal wear , discoloration , or damage , replace them as a set .
Turn the bearing in the swingarm back and forth while checking for plays , roughness , or binding .
If the bearing play , roughness , or binding is found , replace the bearing .
Swingarm Bearing Lubrication
Since the bearings are packed with grease and sealed , lubrication is not required .
Refer to the Chain Guide Wear Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Outputs analog audio .
Apply adhesive .
Tighten the two clamp bolts alternately two times to ensure even tighten torque .
Steering Stem Bearing Driver , & b . phis ; 42.5 :
Steering Stem Bearing Driver Adapter , & b . phis ; 41.5 :
Refer to the Steering Play Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Refer to the Steering Play Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Steering Stem
Stem , Stem Bearing Removal
Install the steering stem head bolt plug .
Steering Stem Head Bolt and Washer
Use two commercially available balanced XLR cables to connect the XLR terminals to an amplifier .
Install the front forks ( see Front Fork Installation in the Suspension chapter ) .
Pushing up the stem base , and remove the steering stem nut with stem cap .
Remove the steering stem [ D ] under side .
Remove the upper stem bearing inner race and bearing .
To remove the bearing outer races pressed into the head pipe , insert a bar into the recesses of head pipe , and applying it to both recess alternately hammer it to drive the race out .
Before you ride the motorcycle , ensure that the motorcycle is not overloaded and that you have followed these instructions .
With the exception of genuine Parts and Accessories , we have no control over the design or application of accessories .
If either steering stem bearing is damaged , it is recommended that both the upper and lower bearings ( including outer races ) should be replaced with new ones .
Remove the lower bearing inner race which is pressed onto the steering stem with a suitable commercially available chisel .
Stem , Stem Bearing Installation
Air Suction Valves -
If the amplifier is not equipped with XLR audio input terminals , use two commercially available RCA audio cables for making connections .
Replace the bearing outer races with new ones .
Apply grease to the outer races , and drive them into the head pipe simultaneously .
Replace the bearing inner races and oil seal with new ones .
Drive the lower ball bearing inner race applied the grease onto the stem .
Apply grease to the lower ball bearing , and install it onto the stem .
Apply grease to the upper ball bearing and inner race .
Install the stem through the head pipe and install the ball bearing and inner race on it .
Install the stem cap [ D ] and steering stem nut [ E ] .
Settle the inner races in place as follows .
Tighten the steering stem nut with 39 N · m ( 4.0 kgf · m ) of torque first , and loosen it a fraction of a turn until it turns lightly .
Word sync input / output terminal ( WORD SYNC )
Afterward tighten it again with specified torque using a stem nut wrench in the direction shown .
Check that there is no play and the steering stem turns smoothly without rattles .
If not , the steering stem bearings may be damaged .
Install the stem head .
Install the washer , and tighten the stem head bolt with specified torque .
Tighten the upper fork clamp bolts first , next the stem head bolt , last the lower fork clamp bolts .
Do not impede the handlebar turning by routing the cables , harnesses and hoses improperly ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Stem Bearing Lubrication
Refer to the Steering Stem Bearing Lubrication in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Steering Stem Warp
Outputs / inputs a synchronizing signal .
Whenever the steering stem is removed , or if the steering cannot be adjusted for smooth action , check the steering stem for straightness .
If the steering stem is bent , replace the steering stem .
Stem Cap Deterioration , Damage
Replace the stem cap if its oil seal shows damage .
Handlebar Removal
Clutch Lever Assembly
Left Handlebar Weight
Front Brake Master Cylinder ( see Front Master Cylinder Removal in the Brakes chapter )
Right Handlebar Weight
Throttle Grip [ D ]
Connect the WORD SYNC IN terminal to the word clock output terminal on a G-0Rb , G-03X or other word clock generator .
Handlebar Installation
Align the punch mark on the handlebar and the corner edge on the stem head .
Tighten the front holder bolts first , and then the rear holder bolts .
There will be a gap at the rear part of the handlebar holder after tightening .
Install the clutch lever ( see Clutch Lever Installation in the Clutch chapter ) .
Apply adhesive cement to the inside of the left handlebar grip .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the left handlebar weight bolt .
Install the left switch housing .
Fit the projection into a small hole in the handlebar .
Throttle Cable Tips
Connect the WORD SYNC OUT terminal to the WORD SYNC IN on a digital device .
Install the front brake master cylinder ( see Front Master Cylinder Installation in the Brakes chapter ) .
Insert the ignition switch key into the seat lock , turning the key clockwise , pulling up on the rear of the seat , and pulling the seat backward .
Slip the seat hook under the brace on the fuel tank bracket .
Insert the seat latch into the latch hole .
Fairings
Lower Fairing Removal
Lower Fairing Installation
Pull the center fairing evenly outward to clear the stoppers .
Put the projection into the grommet on the rear fender rear .
Upper Fairing Bracket Removal
Use a commercially available BNC coaxial digital cable ( impedance : 75 ohm ) .
Center Fairings ( see Center Fairing Removal )
Alternator Cover ( see Alternator Cover Removal )
Headlight Assy ( see Headlight Removal / Installation in the Electrical System chapter )
Meter Unit ( see Meter Unit Removal in the Electrical System chapter )
Reserve Tank ( see Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter )
Route the crankshaft sensor lead correctly ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Remove the inner fairing ( see Inner Fairing Removal ) .
Side Covers
Side Cover Removal
Seat ( see Seat Removal )
GND terminal
Pull the side cover evenly outward to clear the stoppers .
Side Cover Installation
Seat Covers
Seat Cover Removal
Seat Cover Installation
Insert the projections into the holes .
Fenders
Front Fender Removal
Remove the front fender .
Front Fender Installation
Connecting the ground terminals on the CD transport unit and the amplifier to ground using a commercially available ground cable may improve the sound quality .
Install the brake hose clamps to the front fender holes .
Flap and Rear Fender Rear Removal
Remove the seat ( see Seat Removal ) .
Tail / Brake Light ( see Tail / Brake Light Removal in the Electrical System chapter )
Flap and Rear Fender Rear Installation
Rear Fender Front Removal
Under Bracket
Battery ( see Battery Removal in the Electrical System chapter )
Relay Box ( see Relay Box Removal in the Electrical System chapter )
Remove the rear fender front backward and upward .
Rear Fender Front Installation
Frame Inspection
Visually inspect the frame for cracks , dents , bending or warp .
If there is any damage to the frame , replace it .
A repaired frame may fail in use , possibly causing an accident .
If the frame is bent , dented , cracked , or warped , replace it .
Nuts and Bolts
Washers
Sidestand Removal
Sidestand Nut
Connection examples ( connecting three D-05 )
Sidestand [ D ]
Sidestand Installation
Tighten the bolt and lock them with the nut .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the thread of the switch bolt .
Frame Cover
Frame Cover Removal
Pull the frame cover outward to clear the stoppers .
Disconnect the turn signal lead connector .
Frame Cover Installation
Rear View Mirrors
The air suction valve is essentially a check valve which allows fresh air to flow only from the air cleaner into the exhaust port .
Example 1 :
Rear View Mirrors Removal
Loosen the lower hexagonal area for tightening to remove the rear view mirror from the holder .
Do not force to tighten and / or loosen the upper hexagonal area ( adapter ) with a pair of spanners .
Disassembly of this area is Not Available .
Non-permanent locking agent is already applied to the threads of this inner area .
Forcible loosening may damage the adapter and / or the turning mechanism of the stay [ D ] .
Rear View Mirrors Installation
Screw the mounting area of the right rear view mirror into the holder all the way , and tighten the lower hexagonal area for tightening securely .
Lower Hexagonal Area for Tightening
Upper Hexagonal Area ( Adapter )
when no clock generator is available
Rear View Mirror ( Right )
Turn the stay to assure the safe conditions of the rear with the operator sat on the motorcycle .
Adjust the rear view mirror slightly with its mirror .
Installation and adjustment of the left side are common with those of the right side .
Follow the procedure specified at the right side .
( Mixture of the engine oil and molybdenum disulfide grease in a weight ratio 10 :
Sealed Battery
Model Name
Voltage
when a clock generator is available
Charging System
Alternator Output Voltage
42 V or more at 4,000 r / min ( rpm )
Stator Coil Resistance
Charging Voltage
( Regulator / Rectifier Output Voltage )
Crankshaft Sensor Resistance
Crankshaft Sensor Peak Voltage
Stick Coil :
Primary Winding Resistance
Three D-05 units are required to play multi-channel Super Audio CD or DVD audio without down-mixing .
Secondary Winding Resistance
Primary Peak Voltage
Electric Starter System
Starter Motor :
Brush Length
Switch and Sensor
Rear Brake Light Switch Timing
ON after about 10 mm pedal travel
Engine Oil Pressure Switch Connections
When engine is stopped :
First , connect the i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal on the Super Audio CD transport unit ( P-01 / P-03 / P-05 ) to the D-05 i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal .
When engine is running :
Water Temperature Sensor Resistance
in the text
Flywheel Puller Assembly , M38 1.5 / M35 1.5 :
Lead Wire - Peak Voltage Adapter :
Fuse Box with FT Main Fuse
Sidestand Switch
Starter Relay with Main Fuse
Precautions
There are a number of important precautions that are musts when servicing electrical systems .
Connect the Word sync terminals as shown in example 1 ( in random order ) .
Learn and observe all the rules below .
This will burn out the diodes on the electrical parts .
Always check battery condition before condemning other parts of an electrical system .
A fully charged battery is a must for conducting accurate electrical system tests .
To prevent damage to electrical parts , do not disconnect the battery cables or any other electrical connections when the ignition switch is on , or while the engine is running .
Because of the large amount of current , never keep the starter button pushed when the starter motor will not turn over , or the current may burn out the starter motor windings .
Troubles may involve one or in some cases all items .
Never replace a defective part without determining what CAUSED the failure .
If the failure was caused by some other item or items , they must be repaired or replaced , or the new replacement will soon fail again .
ensure all connectors in the circuit are clean and tight , and examine wires for signs of burning , fraying , etc . Poor wires and bad connections will affect electrical system operation .
When connecting clock generator G-0Rb / G-03X to the D-05 , connect the WORD CLOCK OUT terminals on the G-0Rb / G-03X word clock generator to the WORD SYNC IN on each device ( example 2 ) .
Measure coil and winding resistance when the part is cold ( at room temperature ) .
Electrical Wiring
Wiring Inspection
Replace the lead or the wiring harness if necessary .
Be sure to disconnect the negative ( - ) cable first .
Put the battery into the rear fender front .
Apply a light coat of grease on the terminals to prevent corrosion .
Battery Activation
Electrolyte Filling
ensure that the model name of the electrolyte container matches the model name of the battery .
Setting of the P-01
These names must be the same .
Be sure to use the electrolyte container with the same model name as the battery since the electrolyte volume and specific gravity vary with the battery type .
This is to prevent overfilling of the electrolyte , shorting the battery life , and deterioration of the battery performance .
Do not remove the aluminum sealing sheet from the filler ports until just prior to use .
Be sure to use the dedicated electrolyte container for correct electrolyte volume .
Place the battery on a level surface .
Check to see that the sealing sheet has no peeling , tears , or holes in it .
Remove the sealing sheet .
The battery is vacuum sealed .
If the sealing sheet has leaked air into the battery , it may require a longer initial charge .
Output button
Remove the electrolyte container from the vinyl bag .
Detach the strip of caps from the container and set aside , these will be used later to seal the battery .
Do not pierce or otherwise open the sealed cells of the electrolyte container .
Do not attempt to separate individual cells .
Place the electrolyte container upside down with the six sealed cells into the filler ports of the battery .
Hold the container level , push down to break the seals of all six cells .
You will see air bubbles rising into each cell as the ports fill .
Do not tilt the electrolyte container
Check the electrolyte flow .
If no air bubbles are coming up from the filler ports , or if the container cells have not emptied completely , tap the container a few times .
( When the G-0Rb is connected , “ Rb IN ” )
Keep the container in place for 20 minutes or more .
Don ’ t remove the container from the battery until it ’ s empty , the battery requires all the electrolyte from the container for proper operation .
Removal of the container before it is completely empty can shorten the service life of the battery .
Do not remove the electrolyte container until it is completely empty and 20 minutes have elapsed .
Gently remove the container from the battery .
Let the battery sit for 30 minutes prior to charging to allow the electrolyte to permeate into the plates for optimum performance .
Charging the battery immediately after filling can shorten service life .
Let the battery sit for at least 30 minutes after filling .
Initial Charge
Place the strip of caps loosely over the filler ports .
Check shafts & bushes for wear or damage
Digital Output setting
Newly activated sealed batteries require an initial charge .
Standard Charge :
1.2 A 5 - 10 hours
Yuasa 1.5 Amp Automatic Charger
Charging rates will vary depending on how long the battery has been stored , temperature , and the type of charger used .
Let battery sit 30 minutes after initial charge , then check voltage using a voltmeter .
If it is not at least 12.8 V , repeat charging cycle .
After charging is completed , press down firmly with both hands to seat the strip of caps into the battery ( don ’ t pound or hammer . ) .
When properly installed , the strip of the caps will be level with the top of the battery .
One of the D-05 that outputs word synchronization signals : “ OUT ”
Once the strip of the caps is installed onto the battery , never remove the caps , nor add water or electrolyte to the battery .
To ensure maximum battery life and customer satisfaction , it is recommended the battery be load tested at three times its amp-hour rating for 15 seconds . Re-check voltage and if less than 12.8 V repeat the charging cycle and load test .
If still below 12.8 V the battery is defective .
No need of topping-up
No topping-up is necessary in this battery until it ends its life under normal use .
Forcibly prying off the seal cap to add water is very dangerous .
Never do that .
Refreshing charge .
If an engine will not start , a horn sounds weak , or lamps are dim , it indicates the battery has been discharged .
Give refresh charge for 5 to 10 hours with charge current shown in the specification ( see Specifications ) .
The others : “ IN ”
When a fast charge is inevitably required , do it following precisely the maximum charge current and time conditions indicated on the battery .
This battery is designed to sustain no unusual deterioration if refresh-charged according to the method specified above .
However , the battery ' s performance may be reduced noticeably if charged under conditions other than given above .
Never remove the seal cap during refresh charge .
If by chance an excessive amount of gas is generated due to overcharging , the relief valve releases the gas to keep the battery normal .
When you do not use the motorcycle for months .
Give a refresh charge before you store the motorcycle and store it with the negative cable removed .
Give a refresh charge once a month during storage .
Battery life .
If the battery will not start the engine even after several refresh charges , the battery has exceeded its useful life .
When the G-0Rb / G-03X is connected , set all the D-05s to “ IN ” .
Replace it ( Provided , however , the vehicle ' s starting system has no problem ) .
Keep the battery away from sparks and open flames during charging , since the battery gives off an explosive gas mixture of hydrogen and oxygen .
When using a battery charger , connect the battery to the charger before turning on the charger .
This procedure prevents sparks at the battery terminals which could ignite any battery gases .
No fire should be drawn near the battery , or no terminals should have the tightening loosened .
The electrolyte contains sulfuric acid .
Be careful not to have it touch your skin or eyes .
If touched , wash it off with liberal amount of water .
Get medial attention if severe .
Interchange
CH_SEL setting respective channels
A sealed battery can fully display its performance only when combined with a proper vehicle electric system .
Therefore , replace a sealed battery only on a motorcycle which was originally equipped with a sealed battery .
Be careful , if a sealed battery is installed on a motorcycle which had an ordinary battery as original equipment , the sealed battery ' s life will be shortened .
Charging Condition Inspection
Battery charging condition can be checked by measuring battery terminal voltage with a digital voltmeter .
Battery Cable Cap ( see Battery Removal )
Disconnect the battery terminals .
Measure the battery terminal voltage .
Measure with a digital voltmeter which can be read one decimal place voltage .
If the reading is 12.8 V or more , no refresh charge is required , however , if the read is below the specified , refresh charge is required .
Frequency change button
Terminal Voltage ( V )
Battery Charge Rate ( % )
Refresh charge is required [ D ]
Refreshing Charge
Remove the battery ( see Battery Removal ) .
Do refresh charge by following method according to the battery terminal voltage .
This battery is sealed type .
Never remove sealing cap even at charging .
Never add water .
Charge with current and time as stated below .
Standard Charge
1.2 A 5 - 10 h ( see following chart )
Quick Charge
If possible , do not quick charge .
If quick charge is done unavoidably , do standard charge later on .
Charging Method
Increase the charging voltage to a maximum voltage of 25 V if the battery will not accept current initially .
Charge for no more than 5 minutes at the increased voltage then check if the battery is drawing current .
If the battery will accept current decrease the voltage and charge by the standard charging method described on the battery case .
1 Turn the unit on .
If the battery will not accept current after 5 minutes , replace the battery .
Battery Charger
Standard Value
Current starts to flow [ D ]
Determine the battery condition after refresh charge .
Determine the condition of the battery left for 30 minutes after completion of the charge by measuring the terminal voltage according to the table below .
Criteria
Judgement
12.8 V or higher
- lower than 12.8 V
The ring around the button lights when the unit is on .
Charge insufficient : Recharge
lower than 12.0 V
Unserviceable : Replace
Alternator Cover Removal
Nut [ D ]
Pull the alternator cover outside .
Alternator Cover Installation
Apply silicone sealant to the alternator lead grommet and crankcase halves mating surface on the front and rear sides of the cover mount .
Check that dowel pins are in place on the crankcase .
Install a new gasket and the alternator cover .
- Also turn on all devices connected to the unit .
Stator Coil Removal
Holding Plate Bolt and Plate
Alternator Lead Grommet
Remove the stator coil [ D ] from the alternator cover .
Stator Coil Installation
SFTre the alternator lead with a holding plate , and tighten the bolt .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads of the holding plate bolt .
Apply silicone sealant to the circumference of the alternator lead grommet , and fit the grommet into the notch of the cover securely .
Install the alternator cover ( see Alternator Cover Installation ) .
Alternator Rotor Removal
Program 2 . Run-out for re-try .
Stamp Unit Switches
- When the master clock ( MCK ) is set to WORD IN , “ WRD UNLOCK ! ” or “ NO WORD ” will appear on the display when the unit is turned on as a word signal cannot be detected as soon as the unit is powered up .
Wipe oil off the outer circumference of the rotor .
Hold the alternator rotor steady with the rotor holder , and remove the rotor bolt and washer .
Using the flywheel puller , remove the alternator rotor from the crankshaft .
Do not attempt to strike the alternator rotor itself .
Striking the rotor can cause the magnets to lose their magnetism .
Alternator Rotor Installation
Using a cleaning fluid , clean off any oil or dirt on the following portions and dry them with a clean cloth .
Crankshaft Tapered Portion
Alternator Rotor Tapered Portion
Apply a thin coat of molybdenum disulfide grease to the crankshaft .
These messages vanish when the word signal is locked .
Install the starter gear and washer .
Again , clean the crankshaft tapered portion and dry there .
Install the alternator rotor while turning it counterclockwise .
Confirm the alternator rotor fit or not to the crankshaft before tightening it with specified torque .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the threads and seating surface of the rotor bolt .
Install the rotor bolt and tighten it with 70 N · m ( 7.0 kgf · m ) of torque .
Remove the rotor bolt and washer .
Check the tightening torque with flywheel puller .
If the rotor is not pulled out with 20 N · m ( 2.0 kgf · m ) of drawing torque , it is installed correctly .
If the rotor is pulled out with under 20 N · m ( 2.0 kgf · m ) of drawing torque , clean off any oil dirt or flaw of the crankshaft and rotor tapered portion , and dry them with a clean cloth .
2 Press the INPUT button to select an input .
Then , confirm that it is not pulled out with above torque .
Tighten the alternator rotor bolt while holding the alternator rotor steady with the rotor holder .
Apply a thin coat of molybdenum disulfide grease to the shafts , and install them .
Install the torque limiter and starter idle gear .
Alternator Inspection
A short or open in one of the coil wires will result in either a low output , or no output at all .
A loss in rotor magnetism , which may be caused by dropping or hitting the alternator , by leaving it near an electromagnetic field , or just by aging , will result in low output .
To check the alternator output voltage , do the following procedures .
Connect the hand tester as shown in the table 1 .
Run it at the rpm given in the table 1 .
The SETUP button on the remote control unit of the P-05 can also be used .
Note the voltage readings ( total 3 measurements ) .
Table 1 Alternator Output Voltage
Tester Range
Connections
Reading
at 4,000 rpm
Tester ( + ) to
Tester ( - ) to
250 V AC
If the output voltage shows the value in the table , the alternator operates properly .
If the output voltage shows a much higher than the value in the table , the regulator / rectifier is damaged .
A much lower reading than that given in the table indicates that the alternator is defective .
Check the stator coil resistance as follows .
Note the readings ( total 3 measurement ) .
Table 2 Stator Coil Resistance
If there is more resistance than shown in the table , or no hand tester reading ( infinity ) for any two leads , the stator has an open lead and must be replaced .
Much less than this resistance means the stator is shorted , and must be replaced .
Using the highest resistance range of the hand tester , measure the resistance between each of the black leads and chassis ground .
Any hand tester reading less than infinity ( ∞ ) indicates a short , necessitating stator replacement .
If the stator coils have normal resistance , but the voltage check showed the alternator to be defective ; then the rotor magnets have probably weakened , and the rotor must be replaced .
When a DSD signal from a Super Audio CD is being input this setting is ignored .
Regulator / Rectifier Inspection
Remove the regulator / rectifier .
Rectifier Circuit Check
Check conductivity of the following pair of terminals .
Rectifier Circuit Inspection
Tester connection
Changes the digital filter characteristics during PCM signal playback .
The resistance should be low in one direction and more than ten times as much in the other direction .
If any two leads are low or high in both directions , the rectifier is defective and the regulator / rectifier must be replaced .
The actual meter reading varies with the meter used and the individual rectifier , but , generally speaking the lower reading should be from zero to one half the scale .
Regulator Circuit Check
To test the regulator out of circuit , use three 12 V batteries and a test light ( 12 V 3 - 6 W bulb in a socket with leads ) .
The test light works as an indicator and also a current limiter to protect the regulator / rectifier from excessive current .
Do not use an ammeter instead of a test light .
Check to be sure the rectifier circuit is normal before continuing .
A different setting can be made for each input .
Do the 1st step regulator circuit test .
Connect the test light and the 12 V battery to the regulator / rectifier as shown .
Check the BK1 , BK2 and BK3 terminal respectively .
If the test light turns on , the regulator / rectifier is defective .
Replace it .
If the test light does not turn on , continue the test .
Do the 2nd step regulator circuit test .
Connect the test light and the 12 V battery in the same manner as specified in the “ Regulator Circuit Test-1st Step ” .
Apply 12 V to the voltage BR terminal .
Do the 3rd step regulator circuit test .
- The DSD signal of Super Audio CDs cannot be up converted .
Momentarily apply 24 V to the voltage BR terminal by adding a 12 V battery .
Check the BK1 , BK2 and BK3 terminals respectively .
Do not apply more than 24 V . If more than 24 V is applied , the regulator / rectifier may be damaged .
Do not apply 24 V more than a few seconds .
If 24 V is applied for more than a few seconds , the regulator / rectifier may be damaged .
If the test light did not light when the 24 V was applied momentarily to the voltage monitoring terminal , the regulator / rectifier is defective .
If the regulator / rectifier passes all of the tests described , it may still be defective .
If the charging system still does not work properly after checking all of the components and the battery , test the regulator / rectifier by replacing it with a known good unit .
Charging Voltage Inspection
Check the battery condition ( see Charging Condition Inspection ) .
- The up convert multiplication factor differs depending on the sampling frequency of the PCM signal input , as follows .
Warm up the engine to obtain actual alternator operating conditions .
Check that the ignition switch is turned off , and connect the hand tester to the battery terminals .
Start the engine , and note the voltage readings at various engine speeds with the headlight turned on and then turned off ( To turn off the headlight , disconnect the headlight connector on the headlight unit . ) .
The readings should show nearly battery voltage when the engine speed is low , and , as the engine speed rises , the readings should also rise .
But they must be kept under the specified voltage .
25 V DC
Battery ( + )
Battery ( - )
Turn off the ignition switch to stop the engine , and disconnect the hand tester .
If the charging voltage is kept between the values given in the table , the charging system is considered to be working normally .
Stamp Cylinder
The D-05 does not up convert .
If the charging voltage is much higher than the values specified in the table , the regulator / rectifier is defective or the regulator / rectifier leads are loose or open .
If the charging voltage does not rise as the engine speed increases , then the regulator / rectifier is defective or the alternator output is insufficient for the loads .
Check the alternator and regulator / rectifier to determine which part is defective .
Charging System Circuit
Starter Motor Clutch
Starter Motor Clutch Removal / Installation
Refer to the Alternator Rotor Removal / Installation .
Starter Motor Clutch Inspection
Turn the starter motor clutch gear by hand .
The starter motor clutch gear should turn clockwise freely , but should not turn counterclockwise .
The D-05 up converts to 176.5 kHz or 192kHz .
If the starter motor clutch does not operate as it should or if it makes noise , go to the next step .
Disassemble the starter motor clutch , and visually inspect the clutch parts .
If there is any worn or damaged part , replace it .
Examine the starter motor clutch gear as well .
Replace it if it worn or damaged .
Starter Motor Clutch Disassembly
Alternator Rotor ( see Alternator Rotor Removal )
Starter Motor Clutch Assembly
The ignition system produces extremely high voltage .
Do not touch the spark plugs or stick coils while the engine is running , or you could receive a severe electrical shock .
The signal is converted to DSD .
Do not disconnect the battery cables or any other electrical connections when the ignition switch is on , or while the engine is running .
This is to prevent FT ( Electric Control Unit ) damage .
Do not install the battery backwards .
The negative side is grounded .
This is to prevent damage to the FT .
Crankshaft Sensor Removal
Crankshaft Sensor Lead Connector
Rubber Boot ( Slide Out )
Oil Pressure Switch Lead Terminal
Clutch Cover ( see Clutch Cover Removal in the Clutch chapter )
Digital Filter ( DF )
Pull out the grommet .
Crankshaft Sensor Installation
Apply silicone sealant to the sensor lead grommet .
Set the hand tester to the 100 Ω range and connect ( + ) lead to the black lead and - lead to the yellow lead in the connector .
Crankshaft Sensor Resistance :
If there is more resistance than the specified value , the coil has an open lead and must be replaced .
Much less than this resistance means the coil has a short and must be replaced .
Following the lowest resistance range of the tester , measure the resistance between the crankshaft sensor leads and the chassis ground .
Any tester reading less than infinity ( ∞ ) indicates a shortcircuit requiring replacement of the crankshaft sensor assembly .
Sensor Peak Voltage Inspection
This setting mode selects the characteristic of the digital filter .
Using the peak voltage adapter is a more reliable way to determine the condition of the crankshaft sensor than using the crankshaft sensor internal resistance measurements .
Set the hand tester to the DC 10 V range , and connect it to a peak voltage adapter .
Set the hand tester to the DC 10 V range , and connect it peak voltage adapter .
Connect the white adapter lead to the yellow lead and the green lead to the black lead in the crankshaft sensor connector .
Pushing the starter button , turn the engine 4 - .
Repeat the measurement until you find a mean value .
If the tester reading is not specified one , check the sensor .
Timing Clock Extraction
Timing Rotor Extraction
Timing Rotor Removal
Wide
Timing Rotor Installation
Stick Coil ( Ignition Coil together with Spark Plug Cap ) Removal
Remove the air cleaner housing ( see Air Cleaner Housing Removal in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Disconnect the stick coil connectors .
Pull the stick coils off the spark plugs .
Do not pry the connector part of the coil while removing the coil .
Stick Coil ( Ignition Coil together with Spark Plug Cap ) Installation
Do not tap the coil head while installing the coil .
Stick Coil ( Ignition Coil together with Spark Plug Cap ) Inspection
Remove the stick coils ( see Stick Coil ( Ignition Coil together with Spark Plug ) Removal ) .
This filter features a slow rolloff for reproducing natural sounding harmonics .
Measure the primary winding resistance as follows .
Connect the hand tester between the coil terminals .
Measure the secondary winding resistance as follows .
Connect the testers between the plug terminal and ( - ) coil terminal .
Set the testers to the 1 k Ω range and read the tester .
Ignition Coil Winding Resistance
Primary Windings :
Secondary Windings :
If the tester does not read as specified , replace the coil .
Stick Coil Primary Peak Voltage
Measure the primary peak voltage as follows .
Install the new spark plug into each stick coil , and ground them onto the engine .
Connect the peak voltage adapter into the hand tester [ D ] which is set to the DC 250 V range .
Connect the adapter to the lead wire-peak voltage adapter [ E ] which is connected between the stick coil connector and stick coil .
Battery [ G ]
Primary Lead Connection
Adapter ( R , + ) to lead wire-peak voltage adapter ( W )
Adapter ( BK , - ) to lead wire-peak voltage adapter ( R )
To avoid extremely high voltage shocks , do not touch the spark plugs or tester connections .
Master clock ( MCK )
Pushing the starter button , turn the engine 4 - 5 seconds with the transmission in neutral to measure the primary peak voltage .
Repeat the measurements 5 times for one stick coil .
Repeat the test for the other stick coil .
If the reading is less than the specified value , check the following .
Stick Coils ( see Stick Coil ( Ignition Coil together with Spark Plug Cap ) Inspection )
Crankshaft Sensor ( see Crankshaft Sensor Inspection )
Spark Plug Removal
Spark Plug Installation
Spark Plug Condition Inspection
Remove the spark plugs ( see Spark Plug Replacement ) .
This setting mode selects the word sync or master clock mode .
Visually inspect the spark plugs .
If the spark plug center electrode and / or side electrode are corroded or damaged , or if the insulator is cracked , replace the plug .
If the spark plug is dirtied or the carbon is accumulated , replace the spark plug .
Measure the gap [ D ] with a wire-type thickness gauge .
Spark Plug Gap :
If the gap is incorrect , replace the spark plugs .
Use the standard spark plugs or equivalent .
Interlock Operation Inspection
1st Check
Start the engine to the following conditions .
Stamp Cyl Guide & Bushes
- Make a connection to the WORD SYNC terminal before selecting W-IN or W-OUT .
Transmission Gear : 1st Position
Clutch Lever : Release
Sidestand : Down or Up
Turn the ignition switch ON and push the red starter button .
The starter motor should not turn when the starter system circuit is OK .
If the engine has started , inspect the starter lockout switches , neutral switch and relay boxes .
If their parts are OK replace the transmisi ó n box .
2nd Check
Clutch Lever : Pulled in
Sidestand : Up
PLL1 ( Word off , NORMAL mode )
The starter motor should turn when the starter system circuit is OK .
If the starter motor is not turn , inspect the starter lockout switch , neutral switches and relay boxes .
3rd Check
Inspect the engine for its secure stop after the following operations are completed .
Run the engine to the following conditions .
Set the sidestand on the ground , then the engine will stop .
If whichever may not be stopped , inspect the neutral switch , starter lockout switch , sidestand switch and relay box .
If their parts are normality , replace the fault-teller .
IC Igniter Inspection
The IC igniter is built in the FT .
This setting does not use word sync .
Refer to the Interlock Operation Inspection , Ignition System Troubleshooting chart and Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter for FT Power Supply Inspection .
Ignition System Circuit
Starter Motor Removal
Do not tap the starter motor shaft or body .
Tapping the shaft or body could damage the motor .
Slide back the rubber cap .
Remove the starter motor cable terminal nut .
Pull out the starter motor .
Starter Motor Installation
When installing the starter motor , clean the starter motor legs and crankcase where the starter motor is grounded .
Only the first of the two internal PLL circuits is operated .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads of the bolts and tighten the bolts .
Starter Motor Disassembly
Remove the starter motor ( see Starter Motor Removal ) .
Starter Motor Assembly
Install the starter motor cable .
Brush Inspection
Measure the length of each brush .
Starter Motor Brush Length
Commutator Cleaning and Inspection
Armature Inspection
The WORD indicator lights up green if the input is i . LINK flow rate control transmission .
Using the 1 Ω hand tester range , measure the resistance between any two commutator segments .
If there is a high resistance or no reading ( ∞ ) between any two segments , a winding is open and the starter motor must be replaced .
Using the highest hand tester range , measure the resistance between the segments and the shaft .
If there is any reading at all , the armature has a short and the starter motor must be replaced .
Even if the foregoing checks show the armature to be good , it may be defective in some manner not readily detectable with the hand tester .
If all other starter motor and starter motor circuit components check good , but the starter motor still does not turn over or only turns over weakly , replace the starter motor with a new one .
Brush Lead Inspection
Using the 1 Ω hand tester range , measure the resistance as shown .
Terminal Bolt and Positive Brushes
If there is not close to zero ohms , the brush lead has an open .
PLL2 ( Word off , Dual PLL mode )
Using the highest hand tester range , measure the resistance as shown .
Terminal Bolt and Negative Brush Holders
If there is any reading , the brush plate assy and / or terminal bolt assy have a short .
Starter Relay Inspection
Disconnect the starter motor cable and battery positive ( + ) cable from the starter relay [ D ] .
Connect the hand tester and 12 V battery to the starter relay as shown .
If the relay does not work as specified , the relay is defective .
Replace the relay .
Testing Relay
Tester Range :
Both internal PLL circuits are operated .
1 Ω range
Criteria :
When battery is connected : 0 Ω
When battery is disconnected : ∞ Ω
Electric Starter Circuit
Lighting System
This motorcycle adopt the daylight system and have a headlight relay in the relay box .
The headlight does not go on when the ignition switch and the engine stop switch are first turned on .
The headlight comes on after the starter button is released and stays on until the ignition switch is turned off .
The headlight will go out momentarily whenever the starter button is pressed and come back on when the button is released .
The second PLL circuit utilizes the internal crystal oscillator .
Refer to the Headlight Aiming Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Headlight Bulb Replacement
Headlight Assy ( see Headlight Removal / Installation )
Headlight Bulb Dust Cover
Hook
Headlight Bulb
When handling the quartz-halogen bulb , never touch the glass portion with bare hands .
Clean off any contamination that inadvertently gets on the bulb with alcohol or soap and water solution .
Replace the headlight bulb .
Fit the projection of the bulb in the hollow of the headlight .
OUT ( Word output mode )
Install the hook .
Fit the dust cover with the “ Top ” mark upward onto the bulb firmly as shown .
Bad [ D ]
Top Mark [ E ]
After installation , adjust the headlight aim ( see Headlight Aiming Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
City Light Bulb Replacement
Pull out the socket together with the bulb .
Pull the bulb out of the socket .
Do not turn the bulb .
Pull the bulb out to prevent damage to the bulb .
The D-05 now operates according to the externally input clock .
Do not use bulb rated for greater wattage then the specified valve .
Replace the bulb with a new one .
Headlight Removal / Installation
Mounting Bolts
Disconnect the headlight connectors and city light connector .
Remove the headlight assy .
Tail / Brake Light Removal
Tail / Brake Light Installation
License Plate Light Bulb Replacement
License Plate Light Cover
Stamp Returned Switch
The WORD SYNC OUT terminal outputs the clock signal input to the WORD SYNC IN terminal .
Push and turn the bulb counterclockwise and remove it .
Insert the new bulb by aligning its upper and lower pins with the upper and lower grooves in the socket , and turn the bulb clockwise .
Turn the bulb about 15 ° .
Install the license plate light cover .
Headlight / Tail Light Circuit
Headlight ( High Beam )
Headlight ( Low Beam )
Passing Switch
License Plate Light 12 V 5 W
Turn Signal Light Bulb Replacement
Selecting IN causes the indicator to blink in blue while the unit searches for an external clock signal .
Turn Signal Lights
Install the projections of the lens to the dints of the turn signal light .
Turn Signal Relay Inspection
Left Center Fairing ( see Center Fairing Removal in the Frame chapter )
Connect one 12 V battery and turn signal lights as indicated in the figure , and count how may times the lights flash for one minute .
If the lights do not flash as specified , replace the turn signal relay .
Testing Turn Signal Relay
Flashing Times ( c / m )
The Number of Turn Signal Lights
Wattage ( W )
The indicator stops blinking when the unit detects and locks to the external clock signal .
Cycle ( s ) per minute
Corrected to “ one light burned out ” .
Turn Signal Light Circuit
Front Right Turn Signal Light
Front Left Turn Signal Light
Rear Right Turn Signal Light
Rear Left Turn Signal Light
Remove the air switching valve ( see Air Switching Valve Removal in the Engine Top End chapter ) .
Set the hand tester to the range and connect it to the air switching valve terminals as shown .
Air Switching Valve Resistance
The D-05 is now ready for playback synced to the external clock signal .
If the resistance reading is except the specified value , replace it with a new one .
Connect the 12 V battery to the air switching valve terminals as shown .
Blow the air to the inlet air duct , and ensure does not flow the blown air from the outlet air duct .
Disconnect the 12 V battery .
If the air switching value does not operate as described , replace it with a new one .
To check air flow through the air switching valve , just blow through the air cleaner hose .
Radiator Fan System
Fan Motor Inspection
Using an auxiliary leads , supply battery power to the fan motor .
If the fan does not rotate , the fan motor is defective and must be replaced .
- The D-05 can handle clock signals up to 192 kHz and switches automatically to accommodate signal input .
Radiator Fan Circuit
Meter , Gauge , Indicator Unit
Meter Unit Removal
Remove the headlight assy ( see Headlight Removal / Installation ) .
Remove the meter unit by taking off the mounting screws with the washers .
Place the meter unit so that the face is up .
If a meter unit is left upside down or sideways for any length of time , it will malfunction .
Meter , Gauge Disassembly
Meter Unit ( see Meter Unit Removal )
Separate the meter assembly and upper meter cover .
- The word clock input frequency range is set to a narrow precision range of ± 15 ppm to optimize use of the G-0Rb / G-03X and other high-precision clocks .
Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection
Ground ( - )
Water Temperature Sensor ( - )
Oil Pressure Warning Indicator Light ( LED ) ( - )
Speed Sensor Supply Voltage
High Beam Indicator Light ( LED ) ( + )
Neutral Indicator Light ( LED ) ( - )
Right Turn Signal Indicator Light ( LED ) ( + )
Left Turn Signal Indicator Light ( LED ) ( + )
FI Indicator Light ( LED ) ( - )
This may prevent synchronization to devices whose output precision is outside this range .
Place the meter unit so that it faces upward .
If the meter unit is left upside down or sideways for a long time or dropped , it will malfunction .
Liquid Crystal Display ( LCD ) Segments Check
Using the auxiliary wires , connect the 12 V battery to the meter unit connector as follows .
Connect the battery positive terminal to the terminal [ 1 ] .
Connect the battery negative terminal to the terminal [ 3 ] .
Connect the terminal [ 2 ] to the terminal [ 1 ] .
If the segments do not disappear , change the meter assembly .
Disconnect the terminal [ 2 ] .
MODE AND RESET BUTTON Operation Check
Channel select ( CH )
Connect the 12 V battery and terminals in the same manner as specified in the “ Liquid Crystal Display ( LCD ) Segments Check ” .
Check that the display change to the CLOCK , ODO , TRIP A and TRIP B displays each time the MODE button is pressed .
If the fuel level gauge flashed , display change to CLOCK , ODO , TRIP A , TRIP B and FUEL .
If the display function does not work , change the meter assembly .
Indicate the clock mode .
Check that when the RESET button in CLOCK mode is pushed for more than two seconds , the meter display turns to the clock set mode .
Both the hour and minute display start flashing .
In the HOUR / MINUTE setting mode , press the RESET button again to effect the HOUR setting mode .
The hour display flashes on the display .
Press the MODE button to set the hour .
i . LiINK remote function
In the HOUR setting mode , press the RESET button to effect the MINUTE setting mode .
The minute display flashes on the display .
Press the MODE button to set the minute .
In the MINUTE setting mode , press the RESET button to return to the HOUR / MINUTE setting mode .
Press the MODE button to complete the time setting process .
The clock starts counting the seconds as soon as the MODE button is pressed .
Indicate the ODO mode .
Check that the display change to the mile and km display each time by pushing the RESET button while MODE button pushed in .
Mile / Km display can alternate between English and metric modes ( mile and km ) in the digital meter .
If the display function does not work and adjust , change the meter assembly .
Speedometer Check
The speed equivalent to the input frequency is indicated in the oscillator , if the square wave would be input into the terminal .
The speed equivalent to the input frequency is indicated in the oscillator , if the square wave ( illustrated as shown ) would be input into the terminal [ 5 ] .
Indicates approximately 60 mph in case the input frequency is near 169.0 Hz .
Indicates approximately 60 km / h in case the input frequency would be approximately 105.6 Hz .
Infraspeed Sensor Electric Source Check
Sensor Electric Source Check
Set the hand tester to the DC 25 V range and connect it to the terminals [ A ] and [ D ] .
If the voltage is less than 8 V , change the meter assembly .
Odometer Pre-Checks
Function of stamp
The sampling frequency is displayed .
Check the odometer with the speedometer in the same way .
If value indicated in the odometer is not added , change the meter assembly .
Trip 1 / 2 Meter Check
Check the trip 1 or 2 meters with the speedometer in the same way .
If value indicated in the trip A / B meters is not added , change the meter assembly .
Check that when the RESET button is pushed for more than two seconds , the figure in the display turns to 0.0 .
If the figure display does not indicate 0.0 , change the meter assembly .
Tachometer Check
The revolutions per minute ( rpm ) equivalent to the input frequency is indicated in the oscillator if the square wave ( illustrated as shown ) would be input into the terminal [ 6 ] .
Indicates approximately 6,000 rpm in case the input frequency would be approximately 200 Hz .
Water Temperature Warning Indicator Light ( LED )
Right Turn Signal Indicator Light ( LED ) [ D ]
Left Turn Signal Indicator Light ( LED ) [ E ]
High Beam Indicator Light ( LED ) [ F ]
If the light ( LED ) does not go on , change the meter unit .
Connect the 12 V battery and terminals in the same manner as specified in the “ Liquid Crystal Display ( LCD ) Segments check ” .
Using the auxiliary leads , connect a 12 V battery to the meter unit connector as follows .
Battery Negative ( - ) Terminal to Terminal [ 7 ]
Battery Positive ( + ) Terminal to Terminal [ 11 ]
Right and Left Turn Signal Indicator Light ( LED )
Messages
For Right Turn Signal Indicator Light ( LED )
For Left Turn Signal Indicator Light ( LED )
If each lights ( LED ) does not go on , change the meter assembly .
Meter Circuit
Switches and Sensors
Brake Light Timing Inspection
Refer to the Brake Light Switch Operation Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Brake Light Timing Adjustment
Switch Inspection
Using a hand tester , check to see that only the connections shown in the table have continuity ( about zero ohms ) .
“ - - - “ appears on the right side of the display .
For the switch housings and the ignition switch , refer to the tables in the Wiring Diagram .
If the switch has an open or short , repair it or replace it with a new one .
Oil Pressure Switch Connections
Engine lubrication system is in good condition .
Remove the water temperature sensor ( see Removal / Installation in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Suspend an accurate thermometer with temperature-sensing projection located in almost the same depth .
Place the container over a source of heat and gradually raise the temperature of the coolant while stirring the coolant gently .
Using the hand tester , measure the internal resistance of the sensor .
If the hand tester does not show the specified values , replace the sensor .
Resistance ( k )
An incompatible signal is input .
( about 6.544 )
Reference Information
Speed Sensor Removal
Disconnect the speed sensor lead connector .
Remove the engine sprocket cover ( see Engine Sprocket Removal in the Final Drive chapter ) .
Speed Sensor Installation
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the sensor bolt , and tighten it .
Remove the speed sensor ( see Speed Sensor Removal ) .
Connect the speed sensor connector with the battery , 10 k Ω resistor and hand tester [ D ] as shown .
Set the tester to the DC 25 V range .
Do not input signals other than PCM or DSD .
Trace each side of the speed sensor surface with the screw driver .
Then the tester indicator should flick .
If the tester indicator does not flick , replace the speed sensor .
Oxygen Sensor Removal ( Europe Models )
Remove the oxygen sensor .
Oxygen Sensor Installation ( Europe Models )
Never drop the oxygen sensor , especially on a hard surface .
Such a shock to the unit can damage it .
Do not touch the sensing part and filter holes of the sensor to prevent oil contact .
Oil contamination from hands can reduce sensor performance .
Check digital device connections .
Oxygen Sensor Inspection ( Europe Models )
Refer to the Oxygen Sensor Inspection in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter .
Fuel Reserve Switch Inspection
Close the fuel tank cap surely .
Connect the test light ( 12 V 3.4 W bulb a socket with leads ) and the 12 V battery to the fuel pump connector .
Battery ( + ) : 12 V 3.4 W Bulb ( One Side )
12 V 3.4 W Bulb ( Other Side ) : BL Lead Terminal
Battery ( - ) : BK Lead Terminal
If the test light turn on , the reserve switch is defective .
Replace the fuel level sensor .
DUAL , RCA , OPT , i . LINK , XLR1 or XLR2 flashes .
Remove the fuel pump ( see Fuel Pump Removal in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Connect the test light ( 12 V 3.4 W bulb in a socket with leads ) and the 12 V battery to the fuel pump connector as shown .
Test Light
Fuel Pump Connector
Fuel Reserve Switch [ D ]
If the test light doesn ' t light , replace the fuel pump .
It might take a long time to turn on the test light in case that the fuel reserve switch is inspected just after the fuel pump is removed .
Leave the fuel reserve switch with leads for inspection connected for few minutes .
The relay box has relays and diodes .
The relays and diodes can not be removed .
The unit cannot detect a digital signal .
Relay Box Removal
Relay Circuit Inspection
Remove the relay box ( see Relay Box Removal ) .
Check conductivity of the following numbered terminals by connecting the hand tester and one 12 V battery to the relay box as shown ( see Relay Box Internal Circuit in this section ) .
If the tester does not read as specified , replace the relay box .
Relay Circuit Inspection ( with the battery disconnected )
Tester Connection
Tester Reading ( )
Not ∞
The actual reading varies with the hand tester used .
Press the INPUT button to select a terminal to which a digital device is connected .
Relay Circuit Inspection ( with the battery connected )
Battery Connection
DC 25 V Range
Tester Reading ( V )
Apply positive lead .
Apply negative lead .
Diode Circuit Inspection
Check conductivity of the following pairs of terminals ( see Relay Box Internal Circuit in this section ) .
If any diode shows low or high in both directions , the diode is defective and the relay box must be replaced .
The actual meter reading varies with the meter or tester used and the individual diodes , but generally speaking , the lower reading should be from zero to one half the scale .
Check image on component
Turn on the connected device .
Relay Box Internal Circuit
Fuse
30 A Main Fuse Removal
Fuse Box Fuse Removal
Pull the fuses straight out of the fuse box with needle nose pliers .
15 A FT Fuse Removal
Unlock the hook to pull the lid .
Confirm the settings of the connected device .
Pull out the FT fuse from the fuse box .
Install the fuse box fuses on the original position as specified on the lid .
Remove the fuse .
Appendix
Cable and Hose Routing
Insert the clamp in the bracket
Insert the clamp in the frame
Insert the clamp from air cleaner side
Through the sidestand switch lead and oxygen sensor lead in the clamp
Ignition Switch Lead Connectors
LOOP ERR !
Left Switch Housing Lead Connector
Ignition Switch Lead
Check the ignition Switch Lead
Left Switch Housing Leads
Insert the clamp in the rear fender front
Clamp ( Insert the clamp in the rear fender front . )
FT Connectors
To the Vehicle-down Sensor and Rear Brake Switch
Battery Negative Lead Connector
Fuel Pump Lead
The i . LINK connection has been connected to form a loop .
Battery Negative Cable
Battery Positive Cable
Main Harness
Clamp ( Clamp the harness . )
Clamp ( Through the main harness and radiator fan lead , and insert the clamp in the frame . )
Through the horn lead between water pipe and frame .
Radiator Fan Connector
To Front Left Turn Signal Light
Starter Motor Cable
Drain Hose ( Through the drain hose between main harness and air cleaner . )
UNKNOWN
Clamp ( Through the drain hose in the clamp . )
Sidestand Switch Lead
Corrugated Tube
Neutral Switch Lead
City Light Connector
Headlight ( LO ) Connector
Clamp ( From the on sequentially , through the left switch housing lead , ignition switch lead and main harness . )
Clamp ( Insert the clamp in the engine bracket . )
Clamp ( Through the clutch cable in the clamp . )
Band ( Clamp the main harness with the frame . )
The device connected via i . LINK is not known .
Right Switch Housing Lead
Clamp ( Through the right switch housing lead , and insert the clamp in the frame . )
Clamp ( Insert the clamp in the front fender . )
Band
Regulator / Rectifier Lead
Rear Brake Light Switch Lead
Refer to the Fuel System chapter for most of DFI trouble shooting guide .
Engine Doesn ' t Start , Starting Difficulty :
Starter relay not contacting or operating
Wiring open or shorted
WORD ERROR !
Fuse blown
Vehicle-down sensor ( DFI ) coming off
Valve lifter seizure
Starter idle gear seizure
Fuel filter clogged
Clean spark plug and adjust plug gap
( When flooded , do not crank the engine with
the throttle fully opened .
This promotes
engine flood because more fuel is supplied
The frequency of the input source does not match word frequency .
automatically by DFI . )
No spark ; spark weak :
Ignition switch not ON
Engine stop switch turned OFF
Clutch lever not pulled in or gear not in neutral
Spark plug dirty , broken , or gap maladjusted
Neutral , starter lockout , or side stand switch trouble
Ignition switch or engine stop switch shorted
Wiring shorted or open
Bypass screw and / or idle adjusting screw maladjusted
Select 44.1 , 88.2 or 176.4 kHz during Super Audio CD playback .
Air passage clogged
Piston ring bad ( worn , weak , broken , or sticking )
Poor Running at Low Speed :
Spark plug dirty , broken , or maladjusted
Stick coil wiring trouble
Stick coil not in good contact
Bypass screw maladjusted
Air bleed pipe bleed holes clogged
Pilot passage clogged
Throttle body assy holder loose
WRD UNLCK !
Throttle body assy not synchronizing
Camshaft position trouble
Fuel to injector insufficient ( DFI )
Fuel poor quality or incorrect
Throttle valve won ' t fully open
Catalytic converter melt down due to muffler overheating ( KLEEN )
Overheating :
Muffler overheating :
For KLEEN , do not run the engine even if with only one cylinder misfiring or poor running ( Request the nearest service facility to correct it )
For KLEEN , do not push-start with a dead battery ( Connect another full-charged battery with jumper cables , and start the engine using the electric starter )
Presenter Unit Cylinder
Indicates that the device cannot lock to the input WORD clock signal .
For KLEEN , do not start the engine under misfire due to spark plug fouling or poor connection of the stick coil
For KLEEN , do not coast the motorcycle with the ignition switch off ( Turn the ignition switch ON and run the engine )
Air cleaner poorly sealed , or missing
Compression high :
Engine load faulty :
Lubrication inadequate :
Engine oil poor quality or incorrect
Gauge incorrect :
Water temperature gauge broken
Water temperature sensor broken
Confirm the frequency setting of the connected clock generator .
Coolant incorrect :
Wrong coolant mixed ratio
Cooling system component incorrect :
Radiator fin damaged
Radiator cap trouble
Radiator fan relay trouble
Fan motor broken
Fan blade damaged
Water pump not turning
Water pump impeller damaged
Connect a clock generator whose frequency range with a precision greater than ± 15 ppm .
Over Cooling :
Clutch Operation Faulty :
Clutch slipping :
Friction plate worn or warped
Steel plate worn or warped
Clutch inner cable trouble
Clutch release mechanism trouble
Clutch not disengaging properly :
Clutch spring compression uneven
Clutch friction plate installed wrong
- Normally the item set by the display setting ( DISP ) is displayed .
Gear Shifting Faulty :
Doesn ' t go into gear ; shift pedal doesn ' t return :
Gear positioning lever binding
Shift mechanism arm spring broken
Shift mechanism arm broken
Jumps out of gear :
Shift fork ear worn , bent
Gear dogs and / or dog holes worn
Shift fork guide pin worn
Overshifts :
Digital Input Terminals
Abnormal Engine Noise :
Overheating
Piston slap :
Cylinder / piston clearance excessive
Piston pin , piston pin hole worn
Valve noise :
Camshaft bearing worn
Other noise :
Piston ring worn , broken , or stuck
Piston ring groove worn
Input format .
Piston seizure , damage
Exhaust pipe leaking at cylinder head connection
Engine mount loose
Camshaft chain , sprocket , guide worn
Air suction valve damaged
Air switching valve damaged
Alternator rotor loose
Abnormal Drive Train Noise :
Clutch noise :
Clutch housing gear worn
DSD , linear PCM ( 32kHz-192kHz , 16-24bit )
Wrong installation of outside friction plate
Transmission noise :
Bearings worn
Metal chips jammed in gear teeth
Engine oil insufficient
Drive line noise :
Drive chain adjusted improperly
Rear and / or engine sprocket worn
Chain lubrication insufficient
Abnormal Frame Noise :
i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal ( 6pin ) x2
Front fork noise :
Oil insufficient or too thin
Rear shock absorber noise :
Disc brake noise :
Disc warped
Caliper trouble
Bracket , nut , bolt , etc . not properly mounted or tightened
Oil Pressure Warning Light Goes On :
Engine oil pump damaged
Engine oil screen clogged
XLR x 2 , Input level : more than 5.0 Vp-p / 110 ohms
Engine oil filter clogged
Engine oil viscosity too low
Oil pressure switch damaged
Wiring faulty
Relief valve stuck open
O-ring at the oil passage in the crankcase damaged
White smoke :
Black smoke :
Brown smoke :
Air cleaner poorly sealed or missing
RCA x2 , Input level : more than 0.5 Vp-p / 75 ohms
Handling and / or Stability Unsatisfactory :
Handlebar hard to turn :
Cable routing incorrect
Hose routing incorrect
Wiring routing incorrect
Steering stem nut too tight
Steering stem bearing damaged
Steering stem bearing lubrication inadequate
Handlebar shakes or excessively vibrates :
Swingarm pivot bearing worn
Presenter Unit Binocular Shaft & Bearings
OPTICAL x1 , Input level : – 24.0 to – 14.5 dBm peak
Rim warped , or not balanced
Handlebar holder bolt loose
Steering stem nut loose
Front , rear axle runout excessive
Engine mounting bolt loose
Handlebar pulls to one side :
Wheel misalignment
Right and left front fork oil level uneven
Shock absorption unsatisfactory :
( Too hard )
Audio features
Rear shock absorber adjustment too hard
( Too soft )
Front fork oil insufficient and / or leaking
Rear shock adjustment too soft
Front fork , rear shock absorber spring weak
Rear shock absorber oil leaking
Brake Doesn ' t Hold :
Pad or disc worn
Brake fluid leakage
Contaminated pad
Analog output level .
Primary or secondary cup damaged in master cylinder
Master cylinder scratched inside
Battery Trouble :
Battery discharged :
Charge insufficient
Battery faulty ( too low terminal voltage )
Battery lead making poor contact
Load excessive ( e . g . , bulb of excessive wattage )
Alternator trouble
Regulator / rectifier trouble
RCA : 2.5 Vrms / 10 kohms ( 1 kHz )
Battery overcharged :
Battery faulty
P / No . 18091-0285
Digital filter : Narrow ) .
Second Edition ( 1 ) :
5Hz - 20 kHz , ± 0.5 dB
ER650A6F / ER650A6S Left Side View
ER650A6F / ER650A6S Right Side View
& b . phis ; 41 mm
Tubular , diamond
Rim Size
Technical Information - Cassette Type Transmission
Cassette Type Transmission
Signal-to-Noise Ratio ( S / N ) .
The transmission of the current model is unable to be removed without disassembling upper and lower crankcase halves .
The ER650A enables transmission to be removed from the right side of engine as an assy , without disassembling crankcase halves ( see Transmission Assy Removal in the Crankshaft / Transmission chapter ) .
Transmission Assy :
Drive Shaft
Shift Dram [ D ]
Shift Forks [ E ]
Transmission Case [ F ]
Technical Information - Inlet Air Pressure Sensor
The FT detects atmospheric pressure when the ignition is switched ON .
While the engine is running , the FT also presumes atmospheric pressure by analyzing the waveform of boost pressure over fixed period .
The intake stroke is recognized by waveform of boost pressure , therefore the system can recognize the difference of each stroke .
Every 18,000 km
Spark plug condition - inspect
( mixture of the engine oil and molybdenum disulfide grease in a weight ratio 10 : 1 )
Water Pump Drain Bolt :
Cylinder Head Bolts ( M10 New Bolts )
Cylinder Head Bolts ( M10 Used Bolts )
Rear Camshaft Chain Guide Bolt
Upper Cap on Clutch Cover
Lower Cap on Clutch Cover
Total harmonic distortion .
Engine Lubrication
Crankcase Bolts ( M6 )
Upper Crankcase Bolts
Shift Shaft Return Spring pin
Front Fender Bracket Bolts
Grab Rail Mounting Bolts
Meter Screws
Regulator / Rectifier Bolts
0.002 % ( JEITA )
Up to 130 km / h ( 80 mph ) :
Over 130 km / h ( 80 mph ) :
Up to 97.5 kg load :
304 kPa ( 3.1 kgf / cm ² )
Inside Circlip Pliers : 57001-143
Steering Stem Nut Wrench : 57001-1100
Oil Filter Wrench : 57001-1249
Pull off the rubber caps from the fitting of each throttle body ( In the photo , the throttle body has been removed for clarity ) .
Check the idle speed .
Presenter Unit Switches
Word Clock Frequency ( input / output )
Connections to FT
Meter ( + ) : Y / W lead ( terminal 6 )
Meter ( - ) → BR / BK lead ( terminal 22 )
1,000 ± 50 r / min ( rpm )
The fuel hose is designed to be used throughout the motorcycle ' s life without any maintenance .
Remove the fuel tank ( see Fuel Tank Removal in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) and check the fuel hose .
“ L ” : low
“ F ” : full
Radiator Hose Clamp Screws : 2.0 N · m ( 0.20 kgf · m )
Remove the fuel hose ( see Fuel Hose Replacement ) .
Input or output level .
Connect :
Remove the cylinder head cover ( see Cylinder Head Cover Removal in the Engine Top End chapter ) .
Unscrew the upper and lower caps on the clutch cover .
Using a wrench on the crankshaft rotation bolt , turn the crankshaft clockwise until the " 1 | T " mark on the timing rotor is aligned with the notch in the edge of the upper hole in the clutch cover for # 1 piston and " 2 | T " mark for # 2 piston .
Hole of Upper Cap
Notch [ D ] in Edge of Upper Hole
Replace 2.55 mm shim with 2.75 mm shim .
( Over 130 km / h ( 80 mph ) )
If the chain is too loose , turn in the left and right chain adjuster nuts [ D ] evenly .
If the chain is too tight , turn out the left and right chain adjuster nuts evenly , and kick the wheel forward .
TTL level / 75 Ω
To keep the chain and wheel properly aligned , the value [ E ] on the left wheel alignment adjuster [ F ] should align with the same ( left or right ) edge [ G ] of inspection window on the swingarm that the right wheel alignment adjuster value aligns with .
Rear Axle Nut : 108 N · m ( 11.0 kgf · m )
Check that the value on the left wheel alignment adjuster aligns with the same ( left or right ) edge of inspection window on the swingarm that the right wheel alignment adjuster value aligns with .
Swingarm ( see Swingarm Removal in the Suspension chapter )
Brake Hose Banjo Bolts : 25 N · m ( 2.5 kgf · m )
Exhaust Pipe Holder Nuts : 17 N · m ( 1.7 kgf · m )
Handlebar ( see Handlebar Removal in the Steering chapter )
Upper Fork Clamp Bolts
Steering Stem Head Bolt Plug
Stem Head Bolt
Word Clock Frequency 44.1 to 100 ( kHz )
Remove the steering stem head [ D ] .
Steering Stem Nut Wrench : 57001-1100
Steering Stem Head Nut : 49 N · m ( 5.0 kgf · m )
Upper Front Fork Clamp Bolts : 20 N · m ( 2.0 kgf · m )
Neutral Indicator Light ( LED ) [ E ]
Oil Pressure / Water Temperature Warning Indicator Light ( LED ) [ F ]
FI Indicator Light ( LED ) [ G ]
FI Indicator Light ( LED ) [ H ]
Pivots : Lubricate with Grease .
Points : Lubricate with Grease .
Output precision .
Cables : Lubricate with Rust Inhibitor .
Install the new fuel hose .
Wait until it cools down .
Turn over the reserve tank , remove the cap , and pour the coolant into a suitable container .
Temporarily install the reserve tank to the frame with two mounting bolts .
Drain the coolant ( see Coolant Change ) .
Fill the coolant ( see Coolant Change ) .
Engine Oil Drain Plug : 20 N · m ( 2.0 kgf · m )
Oil Filter : 18 N · m ( 1.8 kgf · m )
± 3 ppm ( in mint condition )
Front Brake : Repeat the above steps for other caliper .
Front Brake Reservoir Cap Screws : 1.5 N · m ( 0.15 kgf · m )
Caliper Bleed Valves : 7.8 N · m ( 0.80 kgf · m )
Inside Circlip Pliers : 57001-143
Brake Lever Pivot Bolt : 1.0 N · m ( 0.10 kgf · m )
Brake Lever Pivot Bolt Locknut : 5.9 N · m ( 0.60 kgf · m )
Spark Plugs : 18 N · m ( 1.8 kgf · m )
Stick Coils ( see Stick Coil ( Ignition Coil together with Spark Plug Cap ) Installation in the Electrical System chapter )
Diagnosis Connector
Input frequency range .
Digital Fuel Injection Parts
Throttle Assy :
Right after Ignition Switch ON
304 kPa ( 3.1 kgf / cm ² ) with fuel pump running
After 3 Seconds from Ignition Switch ON
280 kPa ( 2.9 kgf / cm ² ) with fuel pump stopped
about 0.05 - 0.07 V DC at Ignition Switch ON and 0 km / h
with sensor arrow mark pointed up : 3.55 - 4.45 V
Oil Pressure Gauge , 5 kgf / cm ² : 57001-125
Fork Oil Level Gauge : 57001-1290
Hand Tester : 57001-1394
Speed Sensor Measuring Adapter : 57001-1667
Peak Voltage Adapter : 57001-1415
Needle Adapter Set : 57001-1457
Fuel Pressure Gauge Adapter : 57001-1593
Fuel Hose : 57001-1607
Kawasaki Bond ( Silicone Sealant ) : 56019-120
Inspect ( see chapter 3 ) .
Inspect and replace ( see chapter 4 ) .
Inspect and repair or replace ( see chapter 5 ) .
Replace ( see chapter 5 ) .
When a problem occurs with the DFI system and ignition system , the FI indicator light ( LED ) goes on .
Enter the self-diagnosis dealer mode 2 ( see Self-diagnosis Procedures ) .
DFI Main Relay
Oxygen sensor heater malfunction , wiring open or short ( Europe Models )
No sound
Crankshaft sensor must send 17 signals ( output signal ) to the FT at the one cranking .
If crankshaft sensor generates other than 17 signals , the engine stops by itself .
If the speed sensor system fails ( no signal , wiring short or open ) , the speedometer shows 0 , and the FT sets the top ( 5 ) gear position .
If the subthrottle sensor system fails ( the signal is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the actuator locks sub throttle valve at full open position .
If the ignition primary winding # 2 has failures ( no signal , wiring short or open ) , the FT shuts off the injector # 2 to stop fuel to the cylinder # 2 , though the engine keeps running .
The oxygen sensor must send signals ( output voltage ) continuously to the FT
D-J Method and α - N Method : When the engine load is light like at idling or low speed , the FT determines the injection quantity by calculating from the throttle vacuum ( inlet air pressure sensor output voltage ) and engine speed ( crankshaft sensor output voltage ) .
Measure the sensor input voltage with the engine stopped and with the connector joined .
Meter ( + ) : R ( sensor BL ) lead
Meter ( - ) : BL ( sensor BR / BK ) lead
Bolt Feed Unit
- > Check amplifier and digital device connections .
FT Connector ← → Throttle Sensor Connector
Measure the output voltage of the sensor with the engine stopped , and with the connector joined .
Inlet Air Pressure Sensor Removal
Pull up the inlet air pressure sensor .
Inlet Air Pressure Sensor Installation
Connect a digital voltmeter to the connector , with the needle adapter set .
Meter ( + ) → BL lead ( terminal 8 )
Meter ( + ) : Y / BL lead ( terminal 7 )
Measure the output voltage with the engine stopped , and with the connector joined .
If the output voltage is out of the usable range , replace the sensor .
Input indicator flashes .
If the output voltage is normal , check the inlet air pressure sensor for vacuum other than 76 cmHg ( abs . ) , check the output voltage as follows :
Connection to Adapter
Check the inlet air pressure sensor output voltage , using the following formula and chart .
Results : In the chart , Vv is within the usable range and the sensor is normal .
Inlet Air Temperature Sensor Removal / Installation
Disconnect the connector from the inlet air temperature sensor .
Meter ( + ) : Y lead ( terminal 20 )
If the output voltage is out of the specified , check the FT for its ground , and power supply ( see FT Power Supply Inspection ) .
If the wiring is good , check the sensor resistance .
- > Turn the device connected to the selected input terminal on .
Remove the needle adapter set , and apply silicone sealant to the seals of the connector for waterproofing .
Remove the inlet air temperature sensor ( see Inlet Air Temperature Sensor Removal ) .
Water Temperature Sensor : 12 N · m ( 1.2 kgf · m )
Meter ( + ) : O lead ( terminal 17 )
If the output voltage is far out of the standard range ( e . g . when the wiring is open , the reading is 0 V ) , check the throttle sensor resistance .
If the wiring is good , check the water temperature sensor resistance .
Water Temperature Sensor Resistance Inspection
Refer to the Water Temperature Sensor Inspection in the Electrical System chapter .
Refer to the Speed Sensor Removal in the Electrical System chapter .
Refer to the Speed Sensor Inspection in the Electrical System chapter .
- > Check whether the connection to the selected input terminal is correct .
Measure the sensor input voltage with the engine stopped , and with the connector joined .
Measure the sensor output voltage with the engine stopped , and with the connector joined .
If you rotate the engine sprocket , the output voltage will be increased .
Connection and Vehicle-down Sensor
Meter ( + ) : BL lead [ E ]
Vehicle-down Sensor Input Voltage
with sensor tilted 40 - 50 ° or more right or left : 0.65 - 1.35 V
Disconnect the subthrottle sensor connector and ( black ) connect the harness adapter between these connectors .
Sprocket Cover ( see Engine Sprocket Removal in the Final Drive chapter )
Connect a digital voltmeter to the oxygen sensor connector ( main harness side ) , using the needle adapter set .
A beeping noise occurs at regular intervals .
Connections to Oxygen Sensor Connector
Meter ( - ) : BR / BK lead
Measure the output voltage of the sensor with the connector joined .
If the reading is within range ( with plugs : 0.45 - 2.5 V , without plugs : 0.05 - 0.45 V ) , the oxygen sensor is good .
Ignition Coils ( # 1 , # 2 : Service Code 51 , 52 )
Meter ( + ) : BK lead ( terminal 35 )
Meter ( + ) : BK / G lead ( terminal 44 )
Battery Voltage ( 12.8 V or more )
Refer to the Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter .
Do not disconnect the relay box and FT connectors .
- > The D-05 is in Word sync mode , but the connected device is not .
If the ground and power supply are good , replace the fault-teller ( see FT section ) .
Subthrottle Valve Actuator Inspection
If the reading is out of the range , replace the actuator along with the throttle body assy .
Type : KEK-54-9 -B
Measure the actuator input voltage with the engine stopped , and with the connector joined .
If the tester reading is specified , check the power source voltage inspection .
Connect a digital voltmeter to the oxygen sensor connector , using the needle adapter .
Measure the power source voltage with the engine stopped , and with the oxygen sensor connector joined .
Tester ( + ) : W / Y lead [ D ]
Check the connection to the Word sync terminal and the setup of the connected device .
Tester ( - ) : Battery ( - ) Terminal [ E ]
Oxygen Sensor [ F ]
Grab Rails ( see Seat Covers Removal in the Frame chapter )
Center Seat Cover ( see Seat Covers section in the Frame chapter )
Seat Covers ( see Seat Covers Removal in the Frame chapter )
Rear Fender Rear Bolts [ D ]
Pull down the rear fender rear .
Remove the FT bracket bolts .
Take the FT out along with the harness .
Disconnect the FT lead connectors .
This phenomenon occurs when the error detected is below the limit of detection for the D-05 word error that would normally produce a WRD ERROR .
Between Terminal 12 ( BR / W ) and Battery ( - ) Terminal
Between Terminal 27 ( W / BK ) and Battery ( - ) Terminal
Terminal 27 ( W / BK ) : Battery Voltage ( 12.8 V or more )
Both : Battery Voltage ( 12.8 V or more )
If the inspection checks good , the FT is damaged .
The FT itself cannot be checked or serviced .
Fuel Pressure Gauge Adapter : 57001-1593
Fuel Hose : 57001-1607
Measure the fuel pressure with the engine stopped .
- > When a device without a Word sync function is used , use the WORD button on the unit to turn off the Word sync function .
Fuel Pressure
Right after Ignition Switch ON , with pump running :
After 3 seconds from Ignition Switch ON , with pump stopped :
280 kPa ( 2.9 kgf / cm ² , residual fuel pressure )
The system should hold the residual pressure about 30 seconds .
If the fuel pressure is normal , the fuel circulation system ( fuel pump , pressure regulator , and fuel passage ) is no faults .
Check the DFI electronic control system ( injectors , sensors , crankshaft sensor , and FT ) .
Fuel Pump Operation ( check the sound of the pump )
If the fuel pressure is much higher than specified , check the following :
Delivery Pipe Clogging
The display shows “ WRD UNLOCK ! ” .
Injector Clogging
Prepare a plastic hose of the inside diameter 7.5 mm and a measuring cylinder .
Temporarily install the fuel tank and close the fuel tank cap .
Measure the discharge for 3 seconds with the plastic hose filled with fuel .
If the fuel flow is much less than the specified , check the battery condition ( see Charging Condition Inspection in the Electrical System chapter ) .
Disconnect the battery ( − ) terminal .
Fuel Pump Bolts : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Battery Voltage ( 12.8 V or more ) for 3 seconds , and then 0 V .
If the reading stays on battery voltage , and never shows 0 V . check the FT and fuel pump relay .
Connect a digital meter to the FT connector , using the needle adapter .
2000 º reverse .
Component Hopper
- > Connect a clock generator whose output frequency precision is within ± 15 ppm .
Injector Power Source Voltage at FT
Meter ( + ) : BR / W ( terminal 12 )
To check the W / R leads between the injector connector and the fuel pump relay , remove the fuel tank ( see Fuel Tank Removal ) and the left side cover ( see Side Cover Removal in the Frame chapter ) .
Connections to Injector # 1
Meter ( + ) : BL / R lead ( terminal 34 )
Meter ( + ) : BL / G lead ( terminal 33 )
If the output voltage is normal , perform “ Injector Signal Test ” .
Remove the needle adapter .
Apply silicone sealant to the seals of the FT connector for waterproofing .
Non-recommended RAM modules may not operate properly , and may cause damage to your computer .
Rating of Bulb : 12 V 3 - 3.4 W
Terminal Width : 1.8 mm
Terminal Thickness : 0.8 mm
Remove the air cleaner housing ( see Air Cleaner Housing Removal )
Remove connectors for injector .
Perform the “ Injector Resistance Inspection ” .
If the wiring is good , check the injector voltage .
If the wiring is good , inspect the FT for its ground and power supply ( see FT Power Supply Inspection ) .
If the reading is out of the range , perform the “ Injector Unit Test ” .
If the reading is normal , perform the “ Injector Unit Test ” for confirmation .
Rating of Bulb : 12 V ( 3 - 3.4 ) W
If the injector clicks , check the wiring again .
If the wiring is good , replace the injector ( may be clogged ) or FT .
Fuel Hose Clamp Screws : 1.5 N · m ( 0.15 kgf · m )
Install the pump outlet hose ( see Fuel Tank Installation ) .
Fuel Pump Relay ( for fuel pump and injectors )
Refer to the Chassis Parts Lubrication in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
High Altitude Performance Adjustment
Any modification is not necessary in this model since the inlet air pressure sensor senses inlet air pressure change due to high altitude and the FT compensates the change .
Fuel Hose Lower End
# 2 Injector Connector
Holder and Duct Clamp Bolts
Loosen the locknut and screw in the throttle cable adjuster fully to give the cables plenty of play .
Remove the right switch housing and take out the accelerator cable upper end and the decelerator cable upper end .
Install the holder clamp bolts in the direction shown with each bolt heads , facing outwards .
Install the air cleaner duct clamp screw so that their screw heads face the right .
Run the vacuum hose ( see Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Remove the throttle body assy ( see Throttle Body Assy Removal ) .
Refer to the Air Cleaner Element Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Hose ( Disconnect )
172 pin Micro DIMM used in CF-T5 / CF-W5 series cannot be used .
Cover [ D ]
Install the clamp on the breather hose so that its pinch heads [ D ] face the front .
Disconnect the fuel pump lead connector and the tube .
8 mm or more @ 75 ° C
Bearing Driver Set : 57001-1129
Front Fork Oil Seal Driver : 57001-1219
Refer to the Coolant Level Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Refer to the Coolant Change in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Build up pressure in the system carefully until the pressure reaches 123 kPa ( 1.25 kgf / cm ² ) .
The maximum pressure is 123 kPa ( 1.25 kgf / cm ² ) .
( Left :
Loosen the clamp and remove the radiator hose from the water pump cover .
Remove the water pump cover bolts .
Water Pump Impeller Bolt : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Radiator Fan Motor Connector ( Disconnect )
Radiator Hose Clamp Screw ( Loosen )
Radiator Hose Clamp Screw
If necessary , remove :
Install the grommet so that its large side faces the front .
Install the radiator to the frame .
Lighting Specification included .
Align the projection on the radiator with the hole on the frame .
Muffler Mounting Bolts : 25 N · m ( 2.5 kgf · m )
Watching the pressure gauge , pump the pressure tester to build up the pressure until the relief valve opens : the gauge hand flicks downward .
Remove the radiator cap .
Thermostat Hosing Bolts
Thermostat Hosing
Refer to the Water Temperature Sensor Removal / Installation in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter .
" R " marked side faces up .
" RN " marked side faces up .
Hollow mark faces forward .
REVISED DOCUMENTS
United Kingdom Model
Compression Gauge , 20 kgf / cm ² : 57001-221
Valve Spring Compressor Assembly : 57001-241
Valve Seat Cutter , 45 ° - & b . phis ; 32 : 57001-1115
Valve Seat Cutter Holder Bar : 57001-1128
Valve Spring Compressor Adapter , & b . phis ; 22 : 57001-1202
Compression Gauge Adapter , M10 1.0 : 57001-1317
Valve Seat Cutter Holder , & b . phis ; 5 : 57001-1208
Valve Guide Arbor , & b . phis ; 5 : 57001-1203
Valve Guide Reamer , & b . phis ; 5 : 57001-1204
Revision Sheet .
Piston Pin Puller Assembly : 57001-910
Kawasaki Bond ( Silicone Sealant ) : 92104-0004
Air Suction Valve Cover Bolts and Clamp
Air Suction Valve Cover
Alternator Cover Bolts : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Air Switching Valve Connector ( Disconnect )
Position the crankshaft as follows .
Remove the upper and lower caps on the clutch cover .
Camshaft Chain Tensioner ( see Camshaft Chain Tensioner Removal )
Plug Hole Gaskets
Project Directory .
# 32 Pin [ J ]
Install the camshaft cap , while pushing the camshaft chain , tighten all camshaft bolts and chain guide bolts .
Camshaft Chain Tensioner ( see Camshaft Chain Tensioner Installation )
Cylinder Head Cover ( see Cylinder Head Cover Installation )
Camshaft and Sprocket Assembly
Camshaft Sprocket Bolt : 49 N · m ( 5.0 kgf · m )
If a new camshaft is to be used , apply a thin coat of a molybdenum disulfide grease to the cam surfaces .
Camshaft Caps ( see Camshaft Removal )
Camshaft Cap Bolts : 25 N · m ( 2.5 kgf · m )
Reconnect the connectors of the air switching valve lead and the inlet air temperature sensor lead .
Vibrator trays
November 2003
When the ignition switch is turned ON with the above connectors disconnected , the service codes ( 13 , 64 ) are stores in the FT .
Install the spark plugs .
Throttle Body Holder
Water Hose
Oxygen Sensor : 25 N · m ( 2.5 kgf · m )
Cylinder Head Nuts ( M10 ) ( Final ) : 49 N · m ( 5.0 kgf · m )
Cylinder Head Nuts ( M8 ) : 25 N · m ( 2.5 kgf · m )
NEW EUROPEAN RETAIL DESIGN – FINAL GUIDELINES
Refer to the Valve Clearance Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Refer to the Valve Clearance Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Valve Seat Cutter , 45 ° - & b . phis ; 35 : 57001-1116
Piston Pin Puller Assembly : 57001-910
REVISIONSHEET
Install the oil ring expander in the bottom piston ring groove so the ends butt together .
Install the oil ring steel rails , one above the expander and one below it .
Measure the outside diameter of each piston 5 mm up from the bottom of the piston at a right angle to the direction of the piston pin .
Throttle Body Assy Holder Bolts : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Remove the bolts and lift up the right footpeg stay .
Rotor Holder : 57001-1674
Disconnect the clutch cable clamp on the cylinder head cover .
Clutch Cable Lower End
Remove the oil level gauge .
REVISION
Clutch Spring Plate ( with thrust bearing and pusher )
Friction Plates , Steel Plates
Holding the clutch hub , remove the nut and washer .
Clutch Holder :
Unscrew the bolts and remove the oil pump chain guide .
Insert the following on the drive shaft .
Clutch Housing with Chain and Sprocket
Sleeve [ D ]
Holding the clutch hub , tighten the clutch hub nut .
DATE
Apply molybdenum disulfide grease to the pusher ends and install it in the clutch spring plate .
Install the clutch spring plate and springs [ D ] , and tighten the clutch spring bolts [ E ] .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution . ( mixture of the engine oil and molybdenum disulfide grease in a weight ratio 10 :
Exhaust Pipe Cover Bolts : 6.9 N · m ( 0.70 kgf · m )
If the oil pressure relief valve [ F ] was removed , install it .
Front Caliper Bleed Valve : 7.8 N · m ( 0.80 kgf · m )
Be sure the damper is on the end of the breather pipe [ D ] .
Oil Pump Body with Oil Pump Shaft [ D ] and Pin
Inner Rotor for Feed Pump
Oil Pump Shaft [ D ] and Pin [ E ]
DESCRIPTION
Dowel Pin [ F ]
Pin [ H ] and Inner Rotor [ I ] for Scavenge Pump
Oil Pump Cover [ K ]
Remove the oil passage plug , and attach the adapter and gauge to the plug hole .
Tighten the terminal bolt securely .
Lower Fairing and Center Fairing ( see Fairing section in the Frame chapter )
Unscrew the lower fairing bracket bolts ( both sides ) and remove the brackets ( both sides ) .
Disconnect the oil pressure switch terminal .
Clutch Cable ( see Clutch Cable Removal in the Clutch chapter )
Project Directory revised to include all TTE Project Managers and regions .
Remove or disconnect :
Alternator Lead Connector [ D ]
Remove the shift pedal ( see Shift Pedal Removal in the Crankshaft / Transmission chapter ) .
Neutral Switch Lead Terminal
Remove the bracket [ D ] and the engine sprocket [ E ] ( see Engine Sprocket Removal in the Final Drive chapter ) .
Horn Leads ( Disconnect )
Put a wooden board on the suitable stand .
Remove the engine mounting bolts .
Remove the engine mounting bracket bolts ( both sides ) [ D ] and remove the brackets [ E ] .
Remove the engine [ F ] .
Revisions to Entrance Statement panels .
Install the engine sprocket ( see Engine Sprocket Installation in the Final Drive chapter ) .
Apply liquid gasket .
Outside Circlip Pliers : 57001-144
Remove the lower crankcase bolts .
Firstly loosen the M6 bolts , secondly the M8 bolts and lastly the M9 bolts .
M6 Bolts
M8 Bolts
M9 Bolts and Washers
Press and insert the new needle bearing for the shift drum until it is bottomed .
Press and insert the new needle bearing [ D ] for the shift shaft so that the bearing surface is flush with the end of the hole .
Dealer Facility Upgrade Program .
Lower Crankcase Half [ E ]
Replace them with new ones .
Crankcase Bolts ( M6 ) : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
The upper crankcase bolts have copper plated washers .
Remove the crankshaft .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the inner surface of upper and lower bearing inserts .
Diameter Mark ( Around Weight Mark ) [ D ] : “ ” or no mark
Bottom of Left Footpeg Stay
Bolt [ D ] of Left Footpeg Stay
Shift Pedal ( see Shift Pedal Removal )
Preliminary Specifications revised .
Shift Shaft Cover
Gear Positioning Lever , Spacer , Washer and Spring
Gear Set Lever Bolt : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Install the shift shaft assembly .
Install new gasket .
Air Cleaner Cover Bolts : 4.9 N · m ( 0.50 kgf · m )
Shift Shaft Return Spring Pin : 29 N · m ( 3.0 kgf · m )
Gear Positioning Lever Bolt [ D ]
Gear Positioning Lever [ E ] with Spring , Washer and Spacer
Shift Drum Cam Bolt : 12 N · m ( 1.2 kgf · m )
Function of feeder unit
Changes to Merchandise Units .
Assemble the transmission assy ( see Transmission Assy Assembly ) .
Tighten the transmission case bolts .
Install the gear positioning lever ( see External Shift Mechanism Installation ) .
Shift Rod Locknut ( Front ) : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Neutral Switch Holder Screw [ E ]
Air Cleaner Element Screw : 2.9 N · m ( 0.30 kgf · m )
Apply grease to the lip of the oil seal .
Install the collar [ D ] .
Drive Shaft and Output Shaft [ D ]
Be sure that the spacer is on the output shaft .
Install the transmission assy on the crankcase ( see Transmission Assy Installation ) .
Press in the oil seal onto collar so that the surface of the oil seal is flush with the surface of the crankcase .
Apply grease to the lip [ E ] of the oil seal .
Oil Holes [ D ]
Ball Bearing
Bearing
Positioning Ring
Remove the shift forks and shift drum ( see Transmission Assy Disassembly ) .
Refer to Transmission Assy Assembly and Installation .
3 Hour maintained emergency luminaire E K5328
Refer to Transmission Assy Removal and Disassembly .
Jack : 57001-1238
Bearing Remover Head , & b . phis ; 10 & b . phis ; 12 : 57001-1266
Bearing Remover Shaft , & b . phis ; 9 : 57001-1265
Remove the front axle .
Muffler Joint Clamp Bolt : 17 N · m ( 1.7 kgf · m )
Axle [ D ] with Washer
Insert the axle from the right side of the wheel , and tighten the axle nut .
Rim Runout ( with tire installed )
DRAWING No . REV
Bearing Remover Shaft , & b . phis ; 9 : 57001-1265
Check :
Movement of the Rollers
Remove the axle cotter pin , and loosen the rear axle nut .
Replace the sprocket washer and axle cotter pin .
Speed Sensor Mounting Bolt : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Bend the end of axle cotter pin surely after tightening the axle nut ( see Rear Wheel Installation in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) .
Rear Shock Absorber Nuts : 59 N · m ( 6.0 kgf · m )
Grease the following .
Wheel Flange Portion
QUOTE No .
Shift Rod Locknut ( Rear ) : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Install the footpeg stay , and tighten the bolts .
Brake Pedal Bolt [ E ]
Install the right footpeg stay , and tighten the bolts .
Unscrew the banjo bolt and remove the brake hoses [ D ] from the caliper ( see Brake Hose Removal / Installation ) .
If the caliper is to be disassembled after removal and if compressed air is not available , disassemble the caliper before the brake hose is removed ( see Rear Caliper Disassembly ) .
Check the fluid level in the brake reservoirs .
Push the holder [ D ] towards the piston , and remove the pad of the other side [ E ] from the holder shaft [ F ] .
Remove the cotter pin .
Remove the master cylinder .
Front Master Cylinder [ J ]
Rear Master Cylinder [ K ]
Rear Brake Switch
Ground the self-diagnosis terminal ( Yellow lead ) to the battery ( - ) terminal or battery ( - ) lead connector , using a wire .
Regulator / Rectifier ( see Regulator / Rectifier Removal in the Electrical System chapter )
It has been adjusted and set with precision at the factory .
Visually inspect the impeller .
Damper Setting
KAYABA KHL34-G10 or equivalent
Amount :
Pink ) ( Right :
± 2 mm ( below from inner tube top with fully compressed , without fork spring )
Spring Preload
Fork Cylinder Holder Handle : 57001-183
Fork Cylinder Holder Adapter : 57001-1057
Install the fork with the upper end of the inner tube flush against the top surface of the stem head .
Top Plug with O-ring
Fork Spring Seat
Compress the fork upside down to draw out the oil into the suitable container .
Pour in the specified amount of oil .
Amount ( Per Side ) :
Rapid Service is the official brand name for quick service without appointment .
Move the outer tube up and down a few times to remove the air that is trapped in the fork oil in order to stabilize the oil level .
Hold the outer tube vertically in a vise and compress the fork completely .
Use the fork oil level gauge to measure the distance between the top of the inner tube to the oil level .
Set the oil level gauge stopper so that the distance from the bottom of the stopper to the lower end of the pipe is the standard oil level distance .
A correct measurement can not be obtained unless the level gauge pipe is placed in the center of the inner tube .
Place the stopper of the level gauge at the top [ D ] of the inner tube [ E ] and pull the handle slowly to draw out the excess oil from fork into the gauge , thus attaining the standard level .
If not oil is drawn out , there is not enough oil in the fork .
Pour in some more oil and measure again .
Repeat the same procedure for adjusting the other fork .
Install the fork spring , fork spring seat and collar .
The Rapid Service signage consists of a silver panel of 750mm . high with half louvres .
Inspect the top plug O-ring and replace it with a new one .
Remove the top plug with O-ring , take out the collar , fork spring seat , and fork spring [ D ] .
Remove the Allen bolt from the bottom of the fork .
Fork Cylinder Holder Handle [ D ] : 57001-183
Fork Cylinder Holder Adapter [ E ] : 57001-1057
Hold the outer tube in a vise [ D ] , stop the cylinder unit [ E ] from turning by using the special tools , and unscrew the Allen bolt .
Remove the cylinder unit , washer , and the spring from the inner tube .
Remove the following from the top of the outer tube .
From the compressed state , firmly pull down the outer tube a few times towards the direction of elongation .
Remove the following from the inner tube .
On these louvres the text is applied in purple illuminated canister letters .
Inner Guide Bushing
Oil Seal [ D ]
Remove the cylinder base from the bottom of the outer tube .
Inner Guide Bushing [ D ]
Outer Guide Bushing [ E ]
Fork Bottom Allen Bolt Gasket [ F ]
Install the guide bushing on the end of the inner tube .
Insert the cylinder unit and the spring into the inner tube , and install the cylinder base onto the cylinder end that protrudes from the bottom .
Install the cylinder base starting with its stepped end .
Insert the inner tube , cylinder unit , washer , spring , and cylinder base as a set into the outer tube .
Bolt Feed Escapement Cylinders
Illuminated Rapid Service letters are always mounted on half Louvres back panels and are available in 1 , 2 and 3 door sizes and are to be positioned above the designated garage door ( -s ) where Rapid Service is delivered .
Install the guide bushing into the outer tube .
After installing the washer , install the oil seal by using the fork oil seal driver .
Install the dust seal by hand .
Apply non-permanent locking agent to the threads of the bottom Allen bolt .
Hold the cylinder unit with the special tools and tighten the bottom Allen bolt to secure the cylinder in place .
Front Fork Bottom Allen Bolt : 20 N · m ( 2.0 kgf · m )
Inner Tube Inspection
Fork Spring Inspection
Measure the free length of the fork spring .
If the measured length is shorter than the service limit , the spring must be replaced .
The illuminated white bar underneath the Rapid Service sign shows ‘ Service Without Appointment ’ or an equivalent in a local language .
3rd position
1st to 7th position
Right Stay Cover
Rear Shock Absorber Nut : 59 N · m ( 6.0 kgf · m )
Chain Cover Bolts and Cover
Right Side Cover ( see Side Cover Removal in the Frame chapter )
Remove the brake hose banjo bolt from the rear caliper , free the brake hose from the clamps , and remove the footpeg stay with the rear master cylinder ( see Rear Caliper Removal in the Brakes chapter ) .
Remove the lower shock absorber nut and bolt .
Remove the drive chain ( see Drive Chain Removal in the Final Drive chapter ) .
Swingarm Pivot Shaft Nut : 98 N · m ( 10 kgf · m )
Rapid Service is not always in English .
Handlebar ( see Handlebar Removal )
Front Fork Clamp Bolts ( Upper ) ( Loosen )
Steering Stem Head [ D ]
Under Bracket ( see Upper Fairing Bracket Removal in the Frame chapter )
Front Forks ( see Front Fork Removal in the Suspension chapter )
Muffler Mounting Nut : 25 N · m ( 2.5 kgf · m )
Remove the handlebar holder bolts .
Remove the handlebar holder and then pull out the handlebar .
Air Cleaner Housing Bolts : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Install the lower fairing , and tighten the mounting bolts .
The Rapid Service Sign is installed above the workshop doors where the service is available .
Center Fairing Removal
Remove the bracket screws and turn signal light .
Center Fairing Installation
Install the turn signal light to the center fairing .
Install the inner fairing ( see Inner Fairing Installation ) .
Connect the turn signal lead connector .
Install the mounting bolts .
Upper Fairing Removal
Upper Fairings
Upper Fairing Installation
The location of the Rapid Service area is preferably on the primary elevation of the dealership so it is highly visible for customer traffic .
Free the following parts from the bracket .
Switch Housing Leads
Remove the upper fairing bracket .
Inner Fairing Removal
Mounting Screws
Inner Fairing
Inner Fairing Installation
Tighten the mounting screws .
Install the center fairings ( see Center Fairing Installation ) .
Insert the tabs into the holes .
When the Rapid Service is offered over more than 1 working bay the Rapid Service sign will be applied over all the doors with both ‘ Rapid Service ’ and ‘ Service Without Appointment ’ texts centralised .
Tighten the screws .
Install the seat ( see Seat Installation ) .
Grab Rails
Screw Rivets
Pull the front and rear portions of the seat cover outside , and then remove the seat covers .
Put the projection into the hole of the seat cover .
Grab Rails and Bolts
Insert the projections of the center seat cover into the holes of the side seat cover .
Seat ( see Seat Installation )
Bolts with Collar ( Both Side )
The actual services offered can be shown on a brand compliant panel located next to the entry of the Rapid Service Bays thus :
Seat Covers ( see Seat Cover Removal )
Flap ( with License Plate Light )
Seat Lock Cable Lower End
Quick Rivet
Free the clamps from the rear fender rear .
Rear Fender Rear ( see Flap and Rear Fender Rear Removal )
Remove the fuse box from the rear fender front .
Free the clamp from the rear fender front .
Frame Cover ( see Frame Cover Removal )
Footpeg Stay
When the Rapid Service is located at a non visible side of the dealership its location should be identified with appropriate directional signs .
Sidestand Switch Bolt with Clamp
Hook the spring .
Install the sidestand switch .
Tighten the bolt .
Commutator Diameter
When engine is stopped : ON
When engine is running : OFF
Flywheel Puller Assembly , M38 1.5 / M35 1.5 : 57001-1405
Grip : 57001-1591
Flywheel & Pulley Holder :
EXCLUSIVE WORKSHOP
Electrical Connectors
Male Connectors
Disconnect the negative ( - ) cable .
Slide out the positive ( + ) terminal cap and then disconnect the positive ( + ) cable .
Remove the battery .
Install the positive ( + ) cable first .
Cover the positive ( + ) terminal with the cap .
Install the negative ( - ) cable .
Battery Model Name for VN900B / D : YTX12-BS
Terminal Voltage : 11.5 - less than 12.8 V
SHARED WORKSHOP
Terminal Voltage : less than 11.5 V
Place a suitable container under the alternator cover , and remove the cover bolts .
Stator Coil Bolts : 12 N · m ( 1.2 kgf · m )
Alternator Lead Holder Plate Bolts : 5.9 N · m ( 0.60 kgf · m )
Remove the alternator cover ( see Alternator Cover Removal ) .
Remove the starter idle gear , torque limiter and shafts .
Alternator Rotor Bolt : 160 N · m ( 16.3 kgf · m )
There are three types of alternator failures : short , open ( lead burned out ) , or loss in rotor magnetism .
One white lead
Fastening & condition of rod end
RAPID SERVICE INTERNAL SIGNAGE
Another white lead
Using the highest resistance range of the hand tester , measure the resistance between each of the white leads and chassis ground .
Starter Idle Gear and Torque Limiter
Shafts
Starter Motor Mounting Bolts : 9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Crankshaft Sensor Lead Connector ( see Crankshaft Sensor Removal )
Turn the ignition switch and engine stop switch ON .
Remove the timing rotor .
Holding the timing rotor with the flywheel & pulley holder and unscrew the rotor bolt .
Fit the rotor to the crankshaft .
When Rapid Service is applied internally in the workshop the Rapid Service work bays can be identified with flat , illuminated or non-illuminated , panel signs .
Tighten the rotor bolt .
Insert the coil as shown being careful of the coil heads direction .
Set the tester to the 1 k range and read the tester .
Remove the stick coils ( see Stick Coil ( Ignition Coil together with Spark Plug Cap ) Removal ) , but do not remove the spark plugs .
Turn the ignition switch and the engine stop switch ON .
Refer to the Spark Plug Condition Inspection in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Starter Motor Cable Terminal Nut : 5.9 N · m ( 0.60 kgf · m )
Take off the starter motor through bolts and remove the both end covers and pull the armature out of the yoke .
Terminal Locknut and Washers
Remove the brush plate assy from the yoke .
When the Rapid Service area is situated internally in a shared workshop our Wordmark can be added to the internal sign ( non illuminated ) to mark the designated area .
Remove the brush plate from the plate cover .
Do not remove the negative carbon brushes from the brush plate .
Install the brush plate to the plate cover as shown .
Install the brush plate assy to the yoke .
Clamp the springs with the clips .
Fit the armature to the brush plate assy [ D ] .
Install the new O-ring as shown .
Washers and Terminal Locknut
Starter Motor Terminal Locknut : 11 N · m ( 1.1 kgf · m )
Align the lines on the yoke with the end cover lines .
DIAGNOSTIC BAY
Tighten the through bolts .
Starter Motor Through Bolts : 4.9 N · m ( 0.50 kgf · m )
If any is worn down to the service limit , replace the brush plate assy and the terminal bolt assy .
Smooth the commutator surface if necessary with fine emery cloth , and clean out the grooves .
Measure the diameter of the commutator .
If the commutator diameter is less than the service limit , replace the starter motor with a new one .
Brush Plate and Negative Brushes
Replace the terminal bolt assy and / or the brush plate assy .
Brush Plate and Terminal Bolt Inspection
Terminal Bolt and Brush Plate
In some countries vehicles are inspected at dedicated work bays to diagnose the repairs and give the customer a price for the repair before the works are carried out .
Terminal Bolt and Yoke
Replace the brush plate assy and the terminal bolt assy .
Bolt and Cover
The battery positive ( + ) cable with the rubber cap is connected directly to the battery positive ( + ) terminal even when the ignition switch off , so take care not to short the removed cable to chassis ground .
1 range
When battery is connected : 0
When battery is disconnected : ∞
Remove the upper fairings ( see Upper Fairing Removal in the Frame chapter ) .
Seat Covers ( see Seat Cover Removal in the Frame chapter )
Unscrew the mounting bolts .
When this dedicated work bay has its own entry , this entry should be identified with the standard secondary location signage as available in the Exterior CI signage program .
Remove the tail / brake light .
Position Light
Unscrew the screw and remove the lens .
21 or 23
Pull the air switching valve hose out of the air cleaner base .
Take the air switching valve hose end outside of the frame .
Reinstall the fuel tank ( see Fuel Tank Installation in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
If there is no leak , check the air switching valve ( see Air Switching Valve Unit Test ) .
Apply a soap and water solution or rubber lubricant to the end of the air switching hose and install the hose on the fitting .
Blow the air to the inlet air duct again , and ensure flow the blown air from the outlet air ducts .
COMBINED RAPID SERVICE AND DIAGNOSTIC BAYS
Screws and Cover
Slide the dust cover and remove the connector .
Lower Meter Cover
Fuel Level Warning Indicator Light ( LED ) ( - )
If the LCD segments and LED warning lights will not appear , change the meter assembly .
All the LCD segments and LED warning light disappear .
If the oscillator is not available , the speedometer can be checked as follows .
Install the meter unit .
Rotate the rear wheel by hand .
Check that the speedometer shows the speed .
When the diagnostics area is adjacent to Rapid Service work bays the same louvres and red bar can be used as for Rapid Service , however the text ‘ Diagnostics ’ will then be on the red bar instead of ‘ Service Without Appointment ’ .
If the speedometer does not work , check the speed sensor electric source voltage and speed sensor .
The electric source voltage and speed sensor are normal , change the meter assembly .
If the oscillator is not available , the tachometer can be checked as follows .
Using an auxiliary wire , quick open and connect the terminal [ 2 ] to the terminal [ 6 ] repeatedly .
Then the tachometer needle should flick .
If the needle does not flick , change the meter assembly .
Indicator Lights Inspection
Oil Pressure / Water Temperature Warning Indicator Light ( LED )
Fuel Level Warning Indicator Light ( LED ) [ G ]
Fuel Level Warning Indictor Light ( LED )
5.0 SERVICE ONLY WORKSHOPS
Suspend the sensor in a container of coolant so that the temperature-sensing projection and threaded portion are submerged .
Replace the fuel pump .
Take out the relay box and disconnect the connectors .
Left Side Cover ( see Side Cover Removal in the Frame chapter )
Cover ( see Starter Relay Inspection )
Air Switching Valve Lead Connector
Inlet Temperature Sensor Lead Connector
Clamp ( Clamp the left switch housing lead ( main harness side ) and ignition switch lead ( main harness side ) . )
Tail Light Connector
License Plate Light Connector
Service Only Workshops or authorised repairers are not selling vehicles but they perform maintenance and repairs according the manufacturers specification .
Rear Left Turn Signal Light Connector
Rear Right Turn Signal Light Connector
Clamp ( Insert the clamp in the rear fender rear . )
Water-proof Joint
Clamp ( Clamp the regulator / rectifier lead and battery negative cable , and insert the clamp in the rear fender front . )
To Starter Relay
Inlet Pressure Sensor
Horn Lead
To the Water Temperature Sensor
Oxygen Sensor Lead
Bolt Feed Escapement Switches .
There are 2 types of exclusive Service Only workshops , workshops that are part of the secondary network , having a contract with the main dealer and authorised repairers who have a contract with the NSC directly .
Drain Hose
Sidestand Switch Lead Connector
Speed Sensor Lead Connector
Main Throttle Sensor Lead Connector
Tube
Coolant Hose
Headlight ( HI ) Connector
Clamp ( Aligh the clamp with the white tape of the harness . )
From the left sequentially , through the clutch cable , left switch housing lead , ignition switch lead and main harness .
Clamp ( Through the ignition switch lead , and insert the clamp in the bracket . )
For the customer there is no difference between the two types of workshops so there is no difference in signage .
Clamp ( Clamp the main harness , subthrottle sensor lead and subthrottle valve actuator lead to the delivery pipe . )
Subthrottle Sensor Lead Connector
Subthrottle Valve Actuator Lead Connector
Stick Coil Lead Connector
Clamp ( Clamp the stick coil lead . )
Rear Brake Light Switch Lead Connector
Through the rear brake light switch lead and vehicle-down sensor lead from the front side of the rear shockabsorber installation part .
Through the regulator / rectifier lead to the front opening of the rear fender front .
Vehicle-down Sensor Lead
Through the fuel pump lead to the slit of the cover .
SHARED WORKSHOPS
APPLICATIONGUIDE FORM
Edge ofthe tailgate
Edge of theblackceramic
Left , 6Right , 5
E ( Eight places )
A Clip ( Left ) :
A Clip ( Right ) :
B Clip :
C Clip :
D Clip :
Depending on the size of the workshop and the available space the following sign elements can be applied :
E Clip :
F Clip :
Light blue
TORX Nut , 6
TORX Bolt , 2
Left , 5Rifht , 4
Dealer name letters or " Service " text .
15 hole
SPARE TIRESUPPORT BRACKET
Sunrise silver back panels .
Left side , 2
SLIDE / UP-DOWN ADJUSTER
FLOOR CONNECTORBRACKET ( Without navigation system )
NAVIGATION UNITBRACKET ( With navigation system )
CENTER INNER COVER
RECLINE INNER COVER
ANCHOR WIRE
OUTER HEIGHTCOVER
INNER HEIGHT COVER
HARNESS SOCK
When the workshop is shared with another manufacturer our workbays should be designated with a Service internal sign ( non-illuminated ) .
SPECIAL BOLT8 x 1,25 mm 22 Nm ( 2,2 kgfm , 16 lbfft )
Use a 13 mm socket wrench .
: Nut , 2
SEAT POSITIONMEMORY SWITCH ( Driver ' s )
MULTIPLEX CONTROLUNIT
POWER TAILGATESWITCH ( for some models )
OUTER WETHERSTRIP
OUTER HANDLE PROTECTER
7.0 USED CARS
LATCH PROTECTER
REAR DOOR SASH OUTER TRIM
OUTER HANDLESPACER
TOOL SET HOLDER
CARGO REAR TRIM PANEL
Closing Force and Opening Drag Check ,
DRAIN CHANNEL ROD
SUNSHADE REAR STOP
REAR MIDDLEDRAIN TUBE
MOTOR PLATE
Used cars are an important part of the Dealer business .
SUNSHADE SLIDERSPACER
Without automatic dimming mirror
With automatic dimming mirror
Third Row Access Cable Replacement ,
Latch Replacement ,
Pivot Replacement ,
Armrest Panel Replacement ,
Seat Recline Motor Replacement ,
SPACER , 4
LOWER FASTENER , 2 ( Self-adhesive-type , glass side ) ( Required for replacement or reinstallation )
Brand specific used cars , sometimes under a private label , do contribute to the overall Brand Image .
REAR WIPER SEAL
FASTENER , 4 ( Self-adhesive-type , body side ) ( Required for replacement or reinstallation )
NOTE :
Check for a flush fit with the body , then check for equal gaps between the front , rear , and bottom door edges and the body .
Check that the door and body edges are parallel .
Place the vehicle on a firm , level surface when adjusting the doors .
Adjust at the hinges ( A ) :
Pad a floor jack ( B ) with shop towels , then use the jack to support the door to prevent damage to the door while adjusting it .
On the front door :
Remove the front inner fender .
Function & condition of switch .
The signage that can be applied for Used Cars is :
Loosen the hinge mounting bolts ( D ) slightly , and move the door backward or forward , up or down as necessary to equalize the gaps .
On the rear door :
Loosen the hinge mounting bolts ( E ) slightly , and move the door backward or forward , up or down as necessary to equalize the gaps .
Front door
Rear door
If necessary , replace the door mounting bolts with the adjusting bolts ( P / N 90102-SFA-305 ) made specifically for door adjustment , then adjust at the door :
Loosen the door mounting bolts ( F ) slightly , and move the door up or down as necessary to equalize the gaps , and move it in or out until it ' s flush with the body .
If necessary , adjust the door cushions ( A ) to make the rear of the doors flush with the body .
Apply touch-up paint to the hinge mounting bolts , and around the hinges .
Check for water leaks .
Used Car pylon .
Special Tools Required
KTC trim tool set
* Available through the Acura Tool and Equipment Program ; call 888-424-6857
If you remove the door glass outer weatherstrip , replace it with a new one because it will bend .
Put on gloves to protect your hands .
Take care not to scratch the door .
Use the appropriate tool from the KTC trim tool set to avoid damage when removing components .
Remove the door panel .
Remove the screw from the rear edge of the door .
Dealer name letters or ‘ Used Car ’ text .
Starting at the rear , pull the door glass outer weatherstrip ( A ) up at each portion where the inner molding ( B ) catches the inside edge of the window slot .
Pull the rear of the glass outer weatherstrip ( A ) away from the door , then pull the front end of it out from under the power mirror ( B ) .
Install new weatherstrip in the reverse order of removal .
Raise the glass fully .
Remove the door panel and inner handle .
Remove the plastic cover , as needed .
Detach the rod fastener .
Disconnect the outer handle rod from the outer handle .
Disconnect the cylinder cable from the latch .
Pull the glass run channel ( A ) away as needed , and remove the bolt , then remove the center lower channel ( B ) by pulling it downward .
The following may NEVER be applied to Used Car Signage :
Remove the screws ( A , B ) securing the latch , then remove the latch through the hole in the door .
Take care not to bend the outer handle rod ( D ) , latch cable ( E ) , and inner handle cable ( F ) .
Remove the screw , then remove the latch protector ( A ) by releasing the hook ( B ) .
Detach the latch cable ( A ) and the inner handle cable ( B ) from the latch .
Install the latch in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure that the actuator connector is plugged in properly , and that the cylinder cable and the outer handle rod are connected securely .
ensure the door locks and opens properly .
When reinstalling the door panel , ensure the plastic cover is installed properly and sealed around its outside perimeter to seal out water .
Disconnect the power door lock actuator connector ( A ) .
Remove the plug cap ( B ) , then remove the plastic cover , as needed .
Use of the Brand Symbol .
Remove the glue from the door surface .
If the plastic cover is damaged or torn , replace it .
Detach the rod fastener ( A ) from the outer handle .
With a clip remover , disconnect the outer handle rod ( A ) .
Driver ' s side :
Pull both side flanges ( A ) of the retainer ( B ) outward , and pull the middle flange portion of the outer casing cover ( D ) out , then disconnect the cylinder cable ( E ) from the latch .
Remove the bolt , then remove the spacer ( A ) .
Remove the maintenance cap ( A ) .
Remove the bolt securing the outer handle protector ( B ) , then remove the protector by releasing the hook .
If necessary , cut a slot in each screwhead of the special screws with a saw , remove the special screws with a flat-tip screwdriver , then separate the door cylinder ( A ) and outer handle protector ( B ) .
Use of an Entrance Element .
If the retainer is damaged , release the hooks ( D ) , and replace it .
If removed , the special screws must be replaced .
While pulling the outer handle ( A ) , remove the handle from the holes in the door panel .
Remove the rod fastener ( A ) from the outer handle ( B ) , then replace it with a new one .
Install the handle in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the door key cylinder / door locks operate properly .
ensure the door handle works properly .
Trim pad remover ,
Snap-on A 177A
Use of louvres .
or equivalent , commercially available
Using a trim tool , push on the upper hook ( A ) and pivot the inner handle cap ( B ) on the bottom hooks , then remove the cap and the screw securing the inner handle ( D ) .
Pry out the bottom edge of the grip cover ( A ) at the notches with the trim tool to detach the clips and to release the hooks ( B ) .
Then remove the cover .
Remove the screws .
Remove the door panel ( A ) with as little bending as possible to avoid creasing or breaking it .
Start at the bottom edge of the door panel , release the clips with a commercially available trim pad remover .
Detach the upper clips .
Starting at the rear , pull the door panel upward .
The inner handle cable ( B ) and latch cable are connected to the inner handle ( D ) .
Private label logo ’ s in combination with main signage .
Do not pull the door panel up too far , or these cables will be damaged .
Remove the inner handle ( A ) from the door panel :
Hold the door panel ( B ) away from the door .
Pull on the front of the inner handle to detach the first clip .
Keep pulling until the rest of the clips are detached , then remove the handle .
Disconnect the door subharness connector ( A ) and power mirror switch connector ( B ) , then remove the door panel .
Remove the latch cable fastener ( A ) from the inner handle ( B ) , and then disconnect the latch cable from the cable fastener ( D ) .
Disconnect the inner handle cable ( E ) from the cable fastener ( F ) , then remove the inner handle .
If the cable fasteners are damaged or stress-whitened , replace them with new ones .
Disconnect the power window switch connector ( A ) , and on the driver ' s side , disconnect the power door lock switch connector ( B ) and the seat position memory switch connector .
Private logo ’ s may only be applied on secondary directional and locational signage .
Remove the screws , then remove the grip ( A ) , armrest assembly ( B ) , armrest cover , and the wood trim ( D ) from the door panel ( E ) .
Remove the screws ( A , B ) , then separate the armrest , the power window switch panel ( D ) , and the power window switch ( E ) .
Install the door panel in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
If the clips are damaged or stress-whitened , replace them with new ones .
Replace any damaged cable fasteners with new ones .
The latch cable ( A ) should be fixed to the cable fastener ( B ) with the latch in the locked position as shown .
ensure the connectors are plugged in properly , and the cables are connected securely .
ensure the window and power door lock operate properly .
Using a clip remover , detach the clips fastening the front door sash inner trim ( A ) .
Pull the door glass opening side of the trim back to release the hooks ( B , C ) from the door glass opening flange of the door sash .
These buildings may be stand alone buildings on the same site as a Main Dealership or on a separate site .
Install the trim in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Push the hooks and clips into place securely .
Use a clip remover to remove the clips .
Detach the clips , then remove the door side sill seal ( A ) .
Install the side sill seal in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Push the clips into place securely .
ensure the door latches securely without slamming it .
If necessary , adjust the striker ( A ) :
The striker nuts are fixed , but the striker can be adjusted slightly up or down , and in or out .
Loosen the screws ( B ) .
Press Unit Cylinder .
USED CAR PYLON
Wrap the striker with a shop towel , then adjust the striker by tapping it with a plastic hammer .
Do not tap the striker too hard .
Lightly tighten the screws .
Hold the outer handle out , and push the door against the body to be sure the striker allows a flush fit .
If the door latches properly , tighten the screws and recheck .
At the A-pillar , remove the door checker mounting bolt ( A ) .
Detach the clips ( B , C , D ) , then remove the door weatherstrip ( E ) .
Install the weatherstrip in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Apply medium strength liquid thread lock to the door checker mounting bolt before installation .
Remove the screws ( A , B ) securing the latch , then lower it .
When a Used Car pylon is installed in combination with a retail pylon the Used Car pylon should always be smaller than the retail pylon .
Remove the bolt , then remove the collar ( A ) from the rear lower channel ( B ) .
Remove the latch ( A ) out from between the rear lower channel ( B ) and the door .
Take care not to bend the outer handle rod , latch cable ( D ) , and inner handle cable ( E ) .
ensure the actuator connector is plugged in properly , and the outer handle rod is connected securely .
If you remove the door outer molding , replace it with a new one because it will bend during removal .
Release the rear clip ( A ) .
While removing the upper edge of the door outer molding ( B ) from the edge of the sash , cut the double-sided adhesive tape with a utility knife , release the front clip ( D ) , then remove the molding .
Scrape off the remaining double-sided adhesive tape from the sash , then clean the sash surface with a sponge dampened in isopropyl alcohol .
Install a new door outer molding in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Push the clips and the adhesive portions into place securely .
‘ Used Car ’ pylons are available in three different sizes ( 2.4 m monument , 3.6 m and 4.8 m ) and ‘ Used Car ’ text should appear on the pole sign header panel in combination with the Welcome Wordmark ( as Commercial pole sign specification ) and should be in the local language .
ensure the upper and lower sides of the molding are catching the edges of the sash properly .
Detach the harness clip ( A ) , and disconnect the power door lock actuator connector ( B ) .
Remove the rear plug cap , then remove the plastic cover ( D ) , as needed .
Detach the rod fastener ( A ) .
Remove the maintenance cap ( A ) with a clip remover , then disconnect the outer handle rod ( B ) from the outer handle .
Remove the bolt securing the outer handle protector ( A ) , then remove the protector by releasing the hook ( B ) .
ensure the outer handle rod is connected securely .
ensure the door locks operate properly .
Lower the glass fully .
Remove the door rear sash outer trim ( A ) .
Introduction to Initiative .
Pull back the door weatherstrip ( B ) , then remove the screw .
Pull the trim up to release the hooks from the door .
Take care not to damage the door glass outer weatherstrip ( D ) .
Install the trim in the reverse order of removal , and ensure the glass run channel ( E ) is installed in the door sash securely .
Using a clip remover , detach the clips fastening the rear door sash inner trim ( A ) .
Pull the door glass opening side of the trim back to release the hooks ( B ) from the door glass opening flange of the door sash .
Using a clip remover , detach the clips fastening the door weatherstrip ( A ) from the door sash outer trim ( B ) .
Remove the door sash outer trim ( A ) .
ensure the glass run channel ( E ) is installed in the door sash securely .
Take care not to scratch the front bumper and body .
Prototype and Initial Sites .
Remove the front bulkhead cover ( A ) .
Remove the clips .
Pass the hood latch knob ( B ) through the hole in the cover .
Install the cover in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Take care not to scratch the cowl cover and body .
Remove the windshield wiper arms .
Using a trim tool , remove the clips ( A ) from the cowl cover ( B ) .
Release the windshield washer tube from the hooks ( D ) .
If necessary , remove the hood rear seal ( E ) from all of the hooks ( F ) .
Pull the cowl cover ( A ) forward to release the hooks ( B , C ) of it from the windshield ( D ) and body .
Specification .
From both hood hinge portions , release the hooks ( E , F ) of the hood hinge cover ( G ) from the front fender ( H ) and the roof molding ( I ) .
Remove the cowl cover .
Push the clips and hooks into place securely .
When removing the emblems , take care not to scratch the body .
To remove the front A ' ' emblem , remove the front grille .
Clean the body surface with a sponge dampened in isopropyl alcohol .
After cleaning , keep oil , grease , and water from getting on the surface .
Apply the emblems where shown .
ACURA / MDX emblems :
Remove the adhesive backing .
Layouts ( Small and Large ) .
Put the ACURA / MDX emblems with the application guide foam on the tailgate as shown , then press the emblem into place .
Remove the film and application guide foam .
When installing the ULEV sticker on the inside surface of the left quarter glass , align the sticker with the edge of the black ceramic as shown , then press the sticker into place , and remove the application tape .
Have an assistant help you when removing and installing the front bumper .
Remove the front bulkhead cover .
Remove the bolts ( A , B ) , screws ( C , D ) , and clips ( E , F ) securing the front bumper ( G ) .
Pull on the front bumper ( A ) at the wheel arch areas to release it from the hooks ( B ) on the side spacers .
With the help of an assistant , while pulling the wheel arch portion away from the side spacer ( A ) , pull the front bumper to release the bumper from the hooks ( B ) on the corner upper beam .
Canada models with headlight washer :
While pushing the retainer ( A ) , pull the headlight washer tube ( B ) to disconnect it from a nozzle of the washer motor .
Application Rules – Retail Signs .
Release the washer tube from the tube clip ( D ) .
With the help of an assistant , disconnect the front fog light connectors ( A ) , then remove the front bumper ( B ) .
Install the bumper in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the fog light bulb is fully seated in the fog light housing and locked into place .
ensure the front fog light connectors are plugged in properly , and the headlight washer tube is connected properly .
ensure the front bumper engages the hooks ( of both center upper beams and side spacers ) on each side securely .
Have an assistant help you when removing and installing the rear bumper .
Take care not to scratch the rear bumper and body .
From the rear wheel arches on both sides , remove the screws ( A , B , C ) and clips ( D ) securing the rear bumper ( E ) , and rear fender cover ( F ) .
Remove both taillights .
Suppliers List .
Remove the caps ( A ) .
Remove the bolts ( B ) and clips securing the rear bumper ( D ) .
To remove the clips , pry the inner clip up at the edge near the line ( E ) on its head .
Pull on the rear bumper ( A ) at the wheel arch areas to release it from the hooks ( B ) on the side spacers .
With the help of an assistant , while pulling the wheel arch portion away from the side spacers ( A ) , pull the rear bumper to release the bumper from the hooks ( B ) on the side upper spacer , and from the hooks ( D ) on the side bracket ( E ) .
With the help of an assistant , pull out on the rear bumper to release the bumper ( A ) from the hooks ( B ) on both upper brackets .
ensure the rear bumper engages the hooks ( of both the side bracket , side spacers , and side upper spacers ) on each side securely .
Put on gloves to prevent damage .
Push out the clip ( A ) , release the hook ( B ) , then remove the rear bumper reflector .
Reattach the hook to the rear bumper first , and push the clip into place securely .
NEW DOCUMENTS
Take care not to scratch the front bumper .
Remove the rear bumper .
Remove all of the bolts ( A ) and screws ( B ) .
Pry all of the hooks up with a trim tool , then remove the rear bumper skid trim ( D ) from the rear bumper ( E ) .
Install the trim in the reverse order of removal , and push the hooks into place securely .
Take care not to scratch the rear bumper .
Remove the bolts ( A ) and clips ( B ) , then remove the rear bumper air spoiler from the rear bumper ( D ) .
Install the spoiler in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Take care not to scratch the body and related parts .
Remove the rear fender cover ( A ) .
Press Unit Switches
Contribution Definition .
Remove the screw ( B ) that secure the fender cover and the rear strake from the front of the rear wheel arch .
Remove the screws ( D , E ) and clip ( F ) that secure the rear bumper ( G ) and fender cover from the rear of the rear wheel arch .
Remove the bolts ( H ) and clip ( s ) ( I ) from the rear wheel arch .
Pull out the rear fender cover .
Left
Right
Install the fender cover in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Take care not to scratch the body .
Remove the front inner fender as needed .
Pull out and remove the front fender fairing ( A ) .
Site , Building Form and Interior Space Planning .
Install the fender fairing in the reverse order of removal .
Remove the bolts ( A ) , and clips ( B ) , then remove the front undercover from the splash shield ( D ) , front suspension subframe ( E ) , and front subframe stiffener ( F ) .
Install the undercover in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Remove the screw ( A ) and clips ( B ) , then remove the rear strake from the rear fender cover ( D ) and side sill panel ( E ) .
Install the strake in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Detach the hooks ( A ) , then remove the rear air outlet ( B ) .
Install the air outlet by pushing on the hook portions until the hooks snap into place .
Remove these items :
Left front inner fender , as needed
Left side sill panel
Building Services and Structural Considerations .
Remove the bolts , then remove the left front splash guard reinforcement ( A ) .
Install the reinforcement in the reverse order of removal .
Remove the fuel fill door latch .
Remove the fuel filler cap ( A ) by turning it counterclockwise .
From inside the wheelhouse , carefully push up the adapter lip ( A ) around the fuel filler pipe ( B ) , and release the hooks from the edge of the body hole by hand .
Remove the fuel fill door / adapter ( A ) from the body .
Install the fuel fill door / adapter in the reverse order of removal , and ensure the adapter lip ( A ) is fully seated on the fuel fill pipe ( B ) .
Left rear side trim panel
Left rear fender cover
From inside the vehicle , disconnect the actuator rod ( A ) from the fuel fill door latch ( B ) .
Health , Safety and Environmental Considerations .
Remove the fuel door latch ( A ) .
Turn the latch 45 counterclockwise .
First pull out the end of the latch from the grommet ( B ) .
Remove the latch from the fuel fill door adapter .
If necessary , remove the grommet ( A ) by releasing the tabs ( B ) from inside the vehicle .
Install the fuel door latch in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Install the grommet with the arrow mark on the grommet pointing up .
ensure the fuel fill door opens properly and locks securely .
Remove the left rear side trim panel .
Disconnect the actuator rod ( A ) and the actuator connector ( B ) .
Landscaping and External Works .
Loosen the bolts , then remove the actuator ( A ) and the bracket ( B ) together by sliding it upward .
Install the fuel door actuator in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the actuator connector is plugged in properly , and the rod is connected securely .
Front bulkhead cover
Hood support strut , both sides
Slightly loosen each bolt ( A ) .
Adjust the hood alignment in this sequence :
Adjust the hood right and left , as well as forward and rearward , by using the elongated holes in the hood hinges ( B ) .
Turn the hood edge cushions , as necessary , to make the hood fit flush with the body at the front and side edges .
Adjust the hood latch ( D ) to obtain the proper height at the forward edge , and move the hood latch right or left until the striker ( E ) is centered in the hood latch .
Retail Signs – Rapid Service , Service Workshops , Used Cars and Commercial Vehicles .
Tighten the bolts to the specified torque .
Check that the hood opens properly and closes securely .
Apply touch-up paint to the hinge mounting bolts and around the hinges , and let the paint dry .
Apply multipurpose grease to the hood latch and hood hinges as indicated by the arrows .
Reinstall all of the removed parts .
Disconnect the hood latch switch connector ( A ) , then remove the connector clip from the body .
Remove the bolts , then remove the hood latch ( A ) from the body .
Disconnect the hood opener cable ( B ) from the hood latch .
Take care not to kink the cable .
Apply multipurpose grease to the hood latch as indicated by the arrows .
Design – Flags .
ensure the hood opener cable is connected properly and the hood latch switch connector is plugged in properly .
ensure the cable actuates the latch before you close the hood .
Adjust the hood latch alignment .
ensure the hood opens properly and locks securely .
Take care not to scratch the body and its related parts .
Front inner fender , left side as needed
Driver ' s dashboard undercover
Kick panel , driver ' s side
Disconnect the hood opener cable ( A ) from the hood latch ( B ) .
Remove the hood release handle , and disconnect the hood opener cable .
Application Rules – Interior Signage .
Using a clip remover , detach the clips , and remove the grommet ( D ) from the body , then remove the hood opener cable from the vehicle .
Install the cable in the reverse order of removal .
Remove the driver ' s kick panel .
Remove the bolts , then remove the hood release handle ( A ) .
Disconnect the hood opener cable ( B ) from the hood release handle .
Install the hood release handle in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the hood opener cable is connected properly .
ensure the hood opens properly .
Using a clip remover , detach the clips , then remove the hood seal ( A ) .
Take care not to scratch the hood .
Application Rules – Stand Alone , Service Workshops , Used Cars , and Commercial Vehicle Facilities .
Install the seals in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Use eye protection when prying support strut clip .
With the help of an assistant , use a flat-tip screwdriver ( A ) to pry the support strut clips ( B ) of the support strut on the hood and body , then release the support strut from the pivot bolts ( D ) .
Do not remove the clips from the support strut .
Apply multipurpose grease to each pivot .
Set the clips ( A ) on the original position , then reattach the support strut ( B ) on the pivot bolts by pushing on the support strut .
Grille Replacement
Remove the front grille ( A ) .
Remove the bolts ( B ) and clips ( C , D ) .
Release the hooks ( E ) of the grille from the front bumper ( F ) by pulling the grille upward .
Application Rules – Flags .
To remove the clips D , pry the inner clip up at the edge near the line ( G ) on its head .
Install the grille in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Trim Replacement
Take care not to scratch the front grille .
Remove the front grille .
From behind the grille , pry up on the hooks ( A ) with a trim tool , then remove the front grille trim ( B ) , and the front grille seal from the front grille base ( D ) .
The left front grille trim is shown ; the right front grille trim is similar .
Open the tailgate .
Separate the double-sided adhesive tape ( A ) , and use a trim tool to detach the clip ( B ) and pins of the rear gutter cover ( D ) .
Without power tailgate
Press Unit Slide Rails & Bearings
Sign Quality Assurance .
With power tailgate
If the clip and grommets ( E , F ) are damaged or stress-whitened , replace them with new ones .
Install the rear gutter cover in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Scrape off the remaining double-sided adhesive tape from the cover and body , then clean the cover and body surface with a sponge dampened in isopropyl alcohol .
Apply new adhesive tape ( A ) to the rear gutter cover ( B ) .
Push the adhesive portions , clips , and pins into place securely .
Adhesive tape :
Thickness 1,5 mm
Width 12 mm
Length 50 mm
Lighting Overall Design .
Take care not to scratch the tailgate .
With navigation system :
Remove the tailgate lower trim panel .
From inside the tailgate , disconnect the rearview camera connector ( A ) .
Remove the screws , and release both ends of the rear license trim ( A ) from the inner taillights ( B ) , then remove the trim .
If equipped , pull the rearview camera harness out .
Without navigation system
With navigation system
Remove the screw grommets ( A ) from the tailgate .
Fixtures Minimum Requirements .
If the screw grommets cracked excessively , replace them with new ones .
If the screw grommets are damaged or stress-whitened , replace them with new ones .
If a new rear license trim will be installed , remove all of remaining screw grommets on the tailgate and discard them .
The screw grommets have been installed to the new rear license trim with screws .
ensure the rearview camera connector is plugged in properly .
If a new rear license trim assembly ( A ) is to be installed , hold the trim up , and fit all the screw grommets ( B ) into the holes in the tailgate , then push on the trim until the grommets snap into place .
New rear license trim installation
Molding Removal
Take care not to damage the windshield .
Do not use any metallic tools to remove the windshield portion of the roof molding , or you may chip the edge of the windshield and some cracks in the windshield will occur .
Application Rules – POS Fixtures .
Take care not to bend the roof molding .
For some models :
Remove the roof rail .
Detach the bottom clip ( A ) at the lower corner of the windshield .
Remove the windshield portion of the roof molding ( A ) .
Carefully insert the large trim tool ( B ) and plastic spatula in under the molding next to the lower clip ( D ) .
While pulling the clip portion of the molding up by hand , push each of the eight small hook ( E ) in numbered sequence shown to release the clip from the clip ( F ) on the A-pillar .
Do not try to pry up the clip if it is hard to release from the clip on the A-pillar .
Gradually work your way up to release each of the upper clips ( G , H , I ) .
Start from the front to the rear , carefully insert a trim tool in under the roof molding ( s ) ( A ) next to each of the clips ( B ) , and pry the molding ( s ) up to release it with the clip from the stud bolt on the body , then remove the roof portion of the molding ( s ) .
Application Rules – Furniture .
Without roof rail
With roof rail
Molding Installation
Install the clips ( A , B , C , D , E , F ) on the roof molding ( s ) ( G ) .
Install the roof molding ( s ) ( A ) .
Hold the roof molding ( s ) up on the roof , and align each clip to the stud bolts .
From the rear to the front , fit the clips ( B ) to the stud bolts , then push on the molding until they snap into place .
From the top to the bottom , push the clips ( D ) in the windshield portion of the roof molding until they snap into place to the clip ( E ) on the A-pillar .
Push the bottom clip ( F ) to the front fender into place .
Set the hook ( G ) of the hood hinge cover ( H ) .
Dual Franchises – Category 3a .
Push the clip portions into place securely and reinstall the roof rail , if equipped .
Body Side Clip Replacement
Gradually scrape off the adhesive tape ( A ) under the clips ( B ) while heating it with a heat gun to 212 − 248 F ( 100 − 120 C ) .
To prevent damage , do not heat the painted surface around the clips too much .
To keep the exterior resin parts near the A-pillar from being overheated by the heat gun , wrap them with aluminum foil .
Clean the body bonding surface with a sponge dampened in isopropyl alcohol .
Install the clips ( A ) .
Peel the adhesive backing away from the clips .
Line up the clips with the alignment marks ( B ) on the body , and attach the clips with adhesive tape .
Apply two-part epoxy adhesive ( D ) around the edge of the clips as shown .
Corporate Signs .
For Some Models
Take care not to scratch the covers , roof rail , and the body .
When using a flat-tip screwdriver , wrap it with protective tape to prevent damage .
Pry up on the front cover ( A ) with a trim tool to detach the clips and rib ( B ) from the front bracket , then remove the cover by pulling the cover forward .
Pry up on the rear cover ( A ) with a trim tool to detach the clips from the rear bracket ( B ) , then remove the cover by pulling the cover rearward .
Remove the roof rail ( A ) and the center bracket ( B ) .
Using a trim tool , pry the notch , then remove the roof rail bar cap ( D ) .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the nuts ( E ) from the front bracket ( F ) and the rear bracket ( G ) .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the bolts ( H ) , then remove the roof rail .
Remove the center cover ( I ) , and using a TORX T30 bit , remove the nuts ( J ) , then remove the center bracket .
Revision Sheet - Revision 2 .
Install the roof rail in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Open the front door and rear door .
Remove the side sill panel ( A ) .
Remove the screws ( B ) , then remove the splash guard .
Remove the screw ( D ) fastening the rear fender cover ( E ) and the rear strake ( F ) .
Use the trim tool to pry out the front clip ( G ) , then release the front of the side sill panel from the body .
While pulling the front portion of the side sill panel away from the body , slide the panel forward and remove it .
The side clips ( H ) will stay in the body .
Remove the side clips by turning them 45 .
INDEX
Install the side clips on the side sill panel .
Hold the panel up , and fit the front clip and all the side clips into the holes in the body , then push on the panel until the side clips snap into place .
Reinstall the front inner fender and front splash guard .
Take care not to scratch the tailgate and body .
Disconnect the rear window washer tube ( A ) .
Remove the radio antenna connector grommet ( B ) from the tailgate , and disconnect the radio antenna connector .
Remove the access cap ( A ) from the tailgate , and remove the nuts ( B ) and bolts securing the tailgate spoiler trim .
Gently close the tailgate , and lift up on the tailgate spoiler trim ( A ) to detach the clips .
Remove the high mount brake light connector grommet ( B ) from the tailgate , and disconnect the high mount brake light connector , then remove the tailgate spoiler trim .
If necessary , remove damaged spacer ( A ) and damaged pad rubbers ( B , C ) from the tailgate spoiler trim ( D ) .
Index - Revision 2
Clean the trim surface with a sponge dampened in alcohol , then attach new pares to the trim .
ensure the radio antenna connector and high mount brake light connector are plugged in properly and the rear window washer tube is connected properly .
ensure the radio antenna connector grommet and high mount brake light connector grommet are installed securely .
With power tailgate :
Do the battery terminal disconnection procedure .
Open the tailgate by using the emergency lever while adjusting the tailgate :
Remove the Support strut from each side .
Remove the striker cap ( A ) from the rear trim panel ( B ) .
Adjust the tailgate ( B ) alignment in the following sequence :
Adjust the tailgate right and left , using the elongated holes in the tailgate hinges .
Program 3 . Run-out for reject .
Oiler Unit Slide Rails & Bearings
CONTENTS :
Turn the tailgate edge cushions ( D ) , in or out as necessary , to make the tailgate fit flush with the body at the side edges .
Adjust the fit between the tailgate and tailgate opening by moving the striker ( E ) , and adjust the striker right or left until it is centered in the tailgate latch ( F ) .
Tighten each bolt securely .
Check that the tailgate opens properly and locks securely .
Reinstall the support struts securely .
Apply multipurpose grease to the pivot portion of the tailgate hinges ( A ) as indicated by the arrows .
Do the battery terminal reconnection procedure .
Check for any DTCs that may have been set during repairs , and clear them .
Use eye protection when prying the support strut clips .
With the help of an assistant , use a flat-tip screwdriver ( A ) to pry the support strut clips ( B ) from each end of the support strut at the tailgate and body , then release the support strut from the pivot bolt ( D ) and from the pivot bracket ( E ) .
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Remove the bolts , then remove the pivot bracket ( A ) .
Reinstall the pivot bracket .
Set the clips ( A ) on the original position , then reattach the support strut ( B ) on the pivot bolt and pivot bracket ( D ) by pushing the support strut onto the pivot .
Remove the left tailgate side trim .
Remove the pivot bracket mounting bolts , then push the power tailgate rod ( A ) in the quarter pillar trim ( B ) .
Remove the tailgate weatherstrip ( A ) by pulling it out .
Locate the painted alignment mark ( A ) on the tailgate weatherstrip ( B ) .
Align the painted mark with the alignment notch in the center of the tailgate opening , and install the tailgate weatherstrip all the way around .
Slip the weatherstrip in under the lips of both rear gutter covers ( D ) .
ensure there are no wrinkles in the weatherstrip .
Index - Table of Contents - Revision 2
Fasten the pivot bracket ( A ) on the tailgate .
Reinstall the left tailgate side trim .
Top View
Side View
Remove the spare tire .
Remove the bolts , then remove the spare tire hoist ( A ) .
Take care not to bend the cable ( B ) .
Install the hoist in the reverse order of removal .
Spare Tire Support Bracket Torque
Rear side trim panel
PROJECT DIRECTORY
Third row seat
Pull the carpet back as needed .
Remove the rear wheelhouse gusset ( A ) .
Remove the ground bolt ( B ) and release the harness clip .
Remove the bolts ( D ) .
From outside the vehicle , remove the nuts ( E ) .
Install the gusset in the reverse order of removal .
Front Subframe Torque
After removing the subframe mounting bolts and front subframe stiffener mounting bolts , be sure to replace them with new ones .
Front Subframe Alignment
DESIGN
After mounting the subframe and brackets loosely , align all of the installation reference holes in the subframe , in the subframe front bracket , and in the body using a screwdriver or tapered punch as a guide , then tighten the bolts .
After reinstalling all removed parts , check and adjust the front wheel alignment .
Rear Subframe Torque
When installing , align both installation reference holes in the subframe with the reference holes in the body using a screwdriver or tapered punch as a guide .
After removing the subframe mounting bolts , be sure to replace them with new ones .
SRS components are located in this area .
Review the SRS component locations and the precautions and procedures before doing repairs or service .
Take care not to damage , wrinkle or twist the carpet .
Be careful not to damage the dashboard and other interior trim pieces .
Front seats , both sides
PROTOTYPES
Second row seats , both sides
Third row seats , both sides
Front door sill trim , both sides
Rear door sill trim , both sides
Kick panels , both sides
Passenger ' s dashboard undercover
Steering joint cover
Detach the hooks ( A ) , then remove the footrest plate ( B ) .
Remove the nut ( A ) .
Using a 6 mm socket wrench , release the clip ( B ) , then remove the footrest .
EVENTS
Remove the clips fastening both rear side trim panels ( A ) .
Pull out the edge of the carpet ( B ) from under the panels .
Remove the clips fastening the edge of the carpet ( A ) from both front door sill areas and both rear door sill areas .
Pull out the edge of the carpet from under the B-pillar lower trim ( B ) .
Pull out the middle edge of the carpet ( A ) from under the center console ( B ) , driver ' s / passenger ' s console trim , and console rear trim ( D ) .
Release the fastener ( A ) on the front edge of the carpet ( B ) , then pull back the carpet from under the dashboard .
Remove the carpet .
Install the carpet in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the seat harnesses ( A ) are routed correctly .
Slip the slits ( B ) in the carpet over the rear heater duct and the third row seat heater duct ( D ) .
BUILDINGS
Slip the carpet under the center console , both B-pillar lower trim , and both rear side trim panels properly .
Lower the grab handle ( A ) , then pull out the caps ( B ) by prying up at the notches with a small flat-tip screwdriver .
While pinching the clips ( A ) , release the hooks ( B ) , then remove the grab handle .
Using a pair of pliers , remove all of the clips ( A ) by pinching its hooks .
If the side curtain airbag has deployed , replace the grab handle with a new one .
If the side curtain airbag has not deployed , to prevent the side curtain airbags from deploying improperly and possibly causing injury , inspect removed pieces and replace them if they have any of these types of damage :
Any cracks or damage in the grab handle ( A )
Any cracks or stress-whitening in the caps ( B )
Install the clips ( A ) to the grab handle ( B ) , then install the caps fully into the clips .
Position the grab handle ( A ) on the bracket ( B ) , and push on the grab handle until the clips snap into place securely .
SITE WORKS
Take care not to bend and scratch the headliner .
Be careful not to damage the dashboard and other interior trim .
A-pillar trim , both sides
Front seat belt upper anchor , both sides
B-pillar lower trim , both sides
B-pillar upper trim , both sides
Quarter pillar trim , both sides
Sunvisors , both sides
Grab handles , four places
Rear individual map light
RETAIL SIGNS
Cargoarea light
Center second row seat belt cover
RES display cover ( for some models )
Roof console
Remove the screws , then remove the roof console bezel ( A ) .
If necessary , remove the remaining roof console clips ( A ) from the body and the moonroof frame ( B ) .
Disconnect the roof wire harness connector ( A ) .
With rear entertainment system :
Disconnect the RES wire harness connectors ( A ) and detach the harness clips ( B ) from the left A-pillar .
Disconnect the RES wire harness connectors ( A ) from the rear controller and screen ( B ) .
Oiler Unit Slide Switches
INTERIORS
Lower the headliner ( A ) .
The vehicle with rear entertainment system is shown ; and without rear entertainment system is similar .
Remove the front door opening seals ( B ) , rear door opening seals , and tailgate weatherstrip ( D ) from each roof portion .
With the help of an assistant , detach the rear clips by pulling the rear portion of the headliner down .
With the help of an assistant , release the fasteners ( E ) by lowering the headliner .
With the help of an assistant , pull the headliner ( A ) along with the roof wire harness and rear entertainment system wire harness ( for some models ) out through the tailgate opening .
Do not bend the liner .
Bending the liner will crease and damage it .
If necessary , detach the hooks , then remove the roof side pad ( A ) .
If necessary , remove the cushion tapes ( A ) fastening the roof subharness ( B ) to the headliner , detach the harness clips ( D ) and release the harness from the harness protector base ( E ) , then remove them from the headliner .
POS FIXTURES
If necessary , remove the cushion tape ( A ) fastening the RES wire harness ( B ) to the headliner , detach the harness clips ( D ) and release the harness from the harness protector base ( E ) , then remove them from the headliner .
Install the headliner in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
If the side curtain airbag has deployed , replace the headliner and removed trim pieces with new ones .
To prevent the side curtain airbags from deploying improperly and possibly causing injury , inspect removed pieces and replace them if they have any of these types of damage :
Any crease or tears in the headliner ( A )
Any cracks or breakages in the grab handle ( B )
Any damages around the grab handle holes or sunvisor holes in the headliner
Any cracks in the sunvisor stay base ( D )
Any bends or cracks in the sunvisor stay shaft ( E )
Any cracks in the sunvisor base ( F )
FURNITURE
Any cracks or breakages in the vanity mirror base ( G )
Any fasteners ( H ) and clip bases ( I ) which have come off the headliner
When installing the grab handle , push on the handle against the bracket ( J ) until the clips ( K ) snap into place securely .
Replace the removed cushion tape with new ones .
Check that both sides of the headliner are securely attached to the trim .
ensure the headliner overlaps the trim pieces correctly .
When reinstalling the headliner through the tailgate opening , be careful not to fold or bend it .
Also , be careful not to scratch the body .
Headliner
Grab handle
OTHER BUILDINGS
Sunvisor
Take care not to scratch the headliner .
Using a trim tool , release the tabs ( A ) of the sunvisor cap ( B ) from the bracket .
Remove the sunvisor ( A ) .
Remove the sunvisor from the body and holder ( B ) .
Disconnect the vanity mirror light connector .
Using a flat-tip screwdriver , push the hook ( A ) , and turn the holder ( B ) 90 , then pull it out .
If the side curtain airbag has deployed , replace the sunvisor with a new one .
If the side curtain airbag has not deployed , to prevent the side curtain airbags from deploying improperly and possibly causing injury , inspect removed sunvisor , and replace it if it has any cracks or damage :
Any cracks in the sunvisor stay base ( A )
UNIFORMS
Any bends or cracks in the sunvisor stay shaft ( B )
Any cracks in the sunvisor base
Any cracks in the vanity mirror base ( D )
Install the sunvisor in the reverse order of removal , and ensure the vanity mirror light connector is plugged in properly .
Take care not to scratch the console .
Remove the center console .
Remove the center console panel .
Remove the console beverage holder ( A ) and the passenger ' s console panel ( B ) as an assembly :
Detach the console subharness connector .
Remove the screws ( D ) securing the console beverage holder to the A / T gear position indicator panel ( E ) and the console frame ( F ) .
VEHICLES
Remove the screws ( G ) securing the passenger ' s console panel to the console frame .
Pull out the passenger ' s console panel to detach the clips ( H ) .
Remove the screws , then remove the center console beverage holder ( A ) .
If necessary , separate both rails ( A ) from the outer case ( B ) , then remove the shutter .
Install the beverage holder in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Review the SRS component locations and the precautions and procedures before doing repairs or service .
Take care not to scratch the front seat , dashboard , and related parts .
Do the battery terminal disconnection procedure , and wait at least 3 minutes before beginning work .
Driver ' s inner dashboard trim
Passenger ' s dashboard trim
CORPORATE SIGNS
Console rear trim
Detach the clips by pulling the console lower trim ( A ) back by hand , then remove it .
Detach the clips ( A , B ) by pulling the driver ' s center console trim , then remove it .
Detach the clips ( A , B ) by pulling the passenger ' s center console trim out , and pull it forward to release its pin ( D ) from the center console , then remove it .
From driver ' s side , disconnect the parking pin shift connector ( A ) and shift lock solenoid connector ( B ) .
Remove the rear blower motor relay mounting bolt , second row seat heater relay mounting bolt ( D ) ( for some models ) , and ground bolt ( E ) .
From passenger ' s side , disconnect the console subharness connector ( A ) .
Disconnect the HandsFreeLink control unit connector ( A ) , and detach the harness clips ( B ) .
Open the beverage holder lid .
Pull the beverage holder inner case ( A ) up by hand to detach the clips , then remove it .
MISCELLANEOUS
Shift the shift lever into the R position , then disconnect the A / T shift cable .
Pull back the carpet ( A ) as needed , then remove the bolts ( B , C ) securing the center console ( D ) .
Pull back the carpet ( A ) as needed .
Slide the center console ( B ) backward to detach the clips and pins from the dashboard , lift the console up , then carefully remove it .
Install the console in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Before tightening the bolts , ensure the dashboard wire harness is not pinched .
ensure the connectors are plugged in properly .
If necessary , adjust the shift cable .
Take care not to scratch the center console .
Remove the beverage holder and passenger ' s console panel as an assembly .
Project Directory - Contents - Revision 2
Remove the screw ( A ) , and detach the clips ( B , C ) by pulling the driver ' s console panel ( D ) back , then remove if from the console frame ( E ) .
Remove the HandsFreeLink control unit .
Remove the screws , disconnect the auxiliary jack connector ( without rear entertainment system ) or the AC power outlet connector ( with rear entertainment system ) ( A ) , then remove the center console box ( B ) from the console frame .
Install the box in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the auxiliary jack connector or the AC power outlet connector is plugged in properly .
Remove the passenger ' s center console trim .
Remove the screws , then remove the console side pocket ( A ) from the passenger ' s center console trim ( B ) .
Separate the box ( A ) and rail ( B ) , then slide the console side lid out .
Install the pocket in the reverse order of removal .
Take care not to scratch the pocket .
Remove the screws , then remove the console pocket ( A ) from the console panel ( B ) .
Remove the screws and release the tabs ( A ) , then remove the upper lid ( B ) .
Remove the arm ( A ) and the spring ( B ) .
Remove the console pocket lid ( A ) from the console pocket ( B ) .
Install the pocket in the reverse order of removal , and apply oil to entire rail area of the arm .
Take care not to scratch the center console and related parts .
Starting at the top , gently pull out the console rear trim ( A ) to detach the clips ( B ) , then pull out the trim to detach the remaining clips , and to release the lower tabs ( D ) , disconnect the connectors , then remove the trim :
Rear heater-A / C passenger ' s control panel-unit connector ( E )
With second row seat heater :
Second row seat heater switch connectors ( F )
Note that turning off the unit cancels the OFF setting .
Without rear entertainment system :
Accessory power socket connector ( G )
Auxiliary jack connector ( G )
ensure all connectors are plugged in properly .
Take care not to scratch the trim .
Remove the center console rear trim .
Remove the screws , then remove the center console duct ( A ) .
Remove the screws and release the hooks ( A ) , then remove the HVAC trim ( B ) .
Remove the screws , then remove the rear upper lid ( A ) .
Remove the screws ( A ) and detach the clips ( B , C ) , then remove the rear console vent / vent trim ( D ) .
SIGN CONTRACTORS PERSONNEL
Remove the screws , then remove the rear console vent ( A ) from the rear console vent trim ( B ) .
Remove the screws and release the hooks ( A ) , then remove the accessory power socket panel ( B ) .
Reassemble the rear trim in the reverse order of disassembly , and note these items :
Starting at the rear , pull out the wood panel ( A ) to detach the clips , then remove it .
Remove the screws , then remove the armrest ( A ) from the space between the console frame ( B ) and the console latch trim .
Install the armrest in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Remove the center console armrests from both sides .
Remove the screws ( A ) , and starting at the rear , pull out the center console latch panel ( B ) to detach the clips , then remove it .
Install the panel in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Remove the center console latch panel .
REGIONAL PROJECT MANAGERS
Pull the center console panel ( A ) out to detach the clips ( B , C ) .
Disconnect the accessory power socket connector ( D ) and seat heater switch connectors ( E ) , detach the harness clip ( F ) , then remove the panel .
ensure each connector is plugged in properly .
Take care not to scratch the dashboard , body , and other related parts .
Take care not to bend the brackets .
Remove these items from the dashboard :
Driver ' s outer dashboard trim
Driver ' s dashboard lower cover
Glove box and damper
CONTACTS
Glove box striker
Center upper panel
Center panel
Center console
Tweeter , both sides
Instrument fascia
Gauge control module
Sunlight sensor
Display unit , with navigation system
GPS antenna
France
Adjust the steering column to full tilt down position and to the full telescopic pull position .
Remove the screws ( A , B ) , then remove the driver ' s dashboard lower bracket and the dashboard lower bracket ( D ) .
Remove the parking brake lever mounting bolts ( A , B ) , then lower the lever .
From the front of the dashboard , detach the harness clip ( A ) .
Detach the connectors ( A ) from the dashboard duct in the center upper panel opening .
Pull the sunlight sensor connector ( B ) out through the hole in the dashboard .
Disconnect and detach the passenger ' s airbag connector ( A ) from the steering hanger beam , and detach the dashboard wire harness clip ( B ) .
Remove the passenger ' s airbag mounting bolts .
From the front of the dashboard , remove the screws securing the dashboard ( A ) .
Wrap the steering wheel with a shop towel to prevent damage .
London
Lift up on the dashboard ( A ) .
With an assistant holding the dashboard up , detach the dashboard wire harness clips ( B ) from both sides of the dashboard duct .
With the help of an assistant , remove the dashboard ( A ) .
Lift up on the dashboard to release it from the guide pins ( B ) .
Lift up on the dashboard until the driver ' s outside portion will be higher than the steering column .
While carefully moving the driver ' s outside portion of the dashboard over the steering column , rotate the dashboard toward the front passenger ' s door opening , and lower the passenger ' s side .
Remove the dashboard through the passenger ' s door opening .
Lay the dashboard on its front or back .
Do not rest it on the lower console opening or you may damage it .
From the front of the dashboard , remove the screws securing the dashboard duct ( A ) .
England
From the back of the dashboard , remove the dashboard duct ( A ) from the dashboard ( B ) .
Install the dashboard in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the dashboard fits onto the guide pins correctly .
Replace the passenger ' s airbag mounting bolts with new ones .
Have an assistant help you when removing and installing the dashboard .
Take care not to scratch the dashboard , body and other related parts .
Glove box
Driver ' s dashboard outer trim
Driver ' s dashboard lower bracket and dashboard lower bracket
The Netherlands
A-pillar corner trim
Steering column covers
Disconnect the combination switch connectors , ignition switch connectors , driver ' s airbag connector , cable reel connector , steering angle sensor connector , immobilizer control unit connector , tilt / telescopic motor connectors , and tilt / telescopic control unit connectors , detach the harness clips and remove the mounting bolts , then lower the steering column .
To prevent damage to the steering column , wrap it with a shop towel .
Remove the parking brake lever mounting bolt and screw , then lower the lever .
Driver ' s side
From under the dash , disconnect the left engine compartment wire harness connectors ( A ) , floor wire harness connector ( B ) , parking brake switch connector , and dashboard wire harness connectors ( D ) from the driver ' s under-dash fuse / relay box ( E ) , detach the fuse connector ( F ) , and then release the wire harness clips ( G ) .
Lift the large wire harness connector locks ( H ) before trying to remove the connectors from the fuse / relay box .
Middle portion
Detach the harness clips ( A ) , and disconnect the Polox unit connector ( B ) , GPS antenna connector ( with navigation system ) , yaw rate-lateral acceleration sensor connector ( D ) , A / C wire harness connectors ( E ) , and floor wire harness connector ( F ) .
UK
Disconnect the floor wire harness connector ( s ) ( A ) , rear mode control motor connector ( B ) , rear evaporator temperature sensor connector , rear air mix control motor connector ( D ) , rear power transistor connector ( E ) , and rear blower motor connector ( F ) .
Detach the harness clips ( G ) .
Passenger ' s side
Disconnect the RES wire harness connectors ( A ) .
From under the dash , disconnect the passenger ' s door wire harness connector ( A ) , the floor wire harness connectors ( B ) , stereo amplifier connectors , right engine compartment wire harness connectors ( D ) , and AM / FM antenna sublead connector ( E ) .
Remove the bolts ( A , B ) securing the dashboard and center bracket ( D ) .
Open the driver ' s door , and remove the bolts ( A , B , C ) .
Remove the remaining bolts ( D , E , F ) securing the dashboard ( G ) .
Lift up on the dashboard ( A ) to release it from the guide pins ( B , C ) .
Carefully remove the dashboard through either front door opening .
Germany
Do not rest the dashboard on its lower center cover opening , or it may be damaged .
Lay it on its front or back .
Remove the center bracket ( D ) .
Position the center bracket on the body , then reinstall the dashboard on the body .
After tightening the dashboard mounting bolts , tighten the center bracket mounting bolts , and then tighten the center frame mounting bolts .
Before tightening the bolts , ensure the wire harnesses are not pinched .
Take care not to scratch the dashboard and its related parts .
Remove the sunlight sensor .
Insert the trim tool into a gap between the front defogger vent trim ( A ) and the dashboard ( B ) , and release all of the hooks .
Install the front defogger vent trim in the reverse order of removal , and push the hooks into place securely .
Oiler Unit Nozzles
Spain
The driver ' s side vent is shown ; the passenger ' s side vent is similar .
A-pillar trim
Passenger ' s side :
Remove the screws ( A ) .
Pull out the side vent ( B ) to release the clips , then remove the vent .
Install the side vent in the reverse order of removal , and push the clips into place securely .
The driver ' s side defogger vent trim is shown ; the passenger ' s side defogger vent trim is similar .
Insert the trim tool into a gap between the side defogger vent trim ( A ) and the dashboard ( B ) , and release the hooks .
Install the side defogger vent trim in the reverse order of removal , and push the hooks into place securely .
Remove the audio unit .
Project Directory - Revision 2
Remove the bolts ( A ) and screws ( B ) , then remove the radio brackets from both sides of the audio unit ( D ) .
Remove the screws , then remove the center pocket ( A ) .
Install the center pocket in the reverse order of removal .
Remove the center upper panel .
Pull out the dashboard center panel ( A ) to detach the clips ( B , C , D ) and to release the hooks ( E ) ( with navigation system ) , then remove the panel .
Disconnect the hazard warning switch / passenger ' s airbag off indicator connector ( F ) , and on the models without navigation system , center information display connector ( G ) .
Remove the center information display from the dashboard center panel .
If necessary , peel three pieces of adhesive tapes ( A , B ) , then remove the tray mat , from the center tray ( D ) .
Adhesive tape A :
Thickness 0,5 mmWidth 15 mmLength 50 mm
Italy
Adhesive tape B :
If necessary , remove the screws ( A ) securing the center tray ( B ) , then separate it from the dashboard center panel by detaching the clips ( D ) .
If the removed tray mat is to be reinstalled , remove all of old adhesive tape from the mat , and clean the back of the mat with isopropyl alcohol where the three pieces of new adhesive tape are to be attached .
Attach the tray mat to the center tray with commercially available adhesive tape .
ensure the tabs located between the bottom clips line up with the slots in the dashboard correctly .
Hold the middle of the center upper panel ( A ) , and pull the panel towards the rear of the vehicle to detach all of the clips from the dashboard , to release the hooks ( B ) and pins from the dashboard , and to release the hooks ( D ) from the center panel ( E ) and / or the display unit ( F ) ( with navigation system ) .
Disconnect the center speaker connector ( G ) , then remove the center upper panel .
Install the cover in the reverse order removal , and note these items :
ensure the center speaker connector is plugged in properly .
Adjust the steering column upward .
Remove the driver ' s dashboard lower cover ( A ) .
Remove the screw ( B ) .
Pull out the bottom of the driver ' s dashboard lower cover to release the clips .
Disconnect the humidity / in-car temperature sensor connector ( D ) and the air hose ( E ) .
ensure the humidity / in-car temperature sensor connector is plugged in properly , and the air hose is connected properly .
Open the front door , and remove the driver ' s dashboard side cover ( A ) .
Pull out the front door opening seal ( B ) , as needed .
Gently pull out the front edge of the side cover , and pry the rear edge with a trim tool to release the hooks , then remove the side cover .
Gently pull out the driver ' s outer dashboard trim ( A ) to detach the clips .
Disconnect the power mirror switch connector ( B ) , VSA OFF switch connector , and if equipped , headlight washer switch connector ( D ) , then remove the panel .
20136 Milano
Remove the driver ' s inner dashboard trim ( A ) .
Gently pull out along the edge beside the audio unit by hand to release the lower hooks ( B ) and the clip .
Detach the upper clips ( D ) .
Position the hooks first on installation , then move the clips into place .
Open the front door , and remove the passenger ' s dashboard side cover ( A ) .
Open the glove box .
Remove the passenger ' s dashboard trim ( A ) .
Gently pull out the lower edge and the outside edge of the trim by hand to detach all of the clips and hooks ( D ) .
Remove the Passenger ' s dashboard undercover ( A ) .
Gently pull down the rear edge to detach the clips .
Disconnect the footwell light connector ( B ) and ambient light connector .
Pull the undercover away to release the pins ( D ) from the holders ( E ) .
Replace any damaged clips .
ensure that each connector is plugged in properly .
ensure the pins of the undercover are installed securely to the holders .
Remove the driver ' s dashboard undercover ( A ) .
Turn the lock knob ( B ) 90 .
Gently pull down the rear edge to detach the clip .
Disconnect the footwell light connector and ambient light connector ( D ) , then detach the harness clip ( E ) .
Pull the undercover away to release the pins ( F ) from the holders ( G ) .
Replace the clip if it ' s damaged .
Push the clip into place securely .
ensure the pins on of the cover are securely seated .
Remove the passenger ' s dashboard undercover .
Remove the cap ( A ) , then disconnect the glove box damper ( B ) from the pivot on the glove box .
Close the glove box .
While holding the glove box ( A ) , release the glove box stop ( B ) on each side from the dashboard by pushing them in , then remove the glove box .
Remove the bolt , then remove the glove box damper ( A ) .
Install the glove box in the reverse order of removal .
Take care not to scratch the glove box .
Remove the glove box .
Lift the glove box handle ( A ) , and use a hook-shaped tool to pull one end of the retainer ( B ) out of its slot .
Do not remove the retainer entirely .
Leave one end of the retainer in its original position when removing the lock cylinder .
Remove the glove box lock cylinder ( A ) .
Reinstall the end of the retainer ( A ) in its slot , then reinstall the lock cylinder ( B ) .
Push the cylinder into place securely until the retainer snaps into place .
Remove the bolt ( A ) and screws ( B ) , disconnect the glove box light bulb socket , and detach the harness clip ( D ) , then remove the glove box striker ( E ) .
Install the striker in the reverse order of removal .
ensure the glove box light bulb socket is connected securely .
Rome
Tilt the steering column down , and telescope it out .
Remove these items .
Remove the instrument fascia ( A ) .
Gently pull out the bottom to release the clips
Disconnect the select / reset switch connector ( B ) .
Install the instrument fascia in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the connector is plugged in properly .
Take care not to scratch the column covers .
Do not pry the cover surface with any tools .
Remove the cover ( A ) .
Switzerland
Release the tab ( A ) locating on the right side of the upper column cover ( B ) with your finger .
Release the left tab of the upper column cover while pushing the lower column cover ( D ) from the right side .
With the right side of the upper column cover ( A ) slightly apart from the lower column cover ( B ) , release the tab located on the left side of the upper column cover with your finger .
Remove the cover by lightly pulling it up by releasing the left side tab ( D ) and the front tabs ( E ) of the upper column cover .
Carefully release the tabs , and note the hooks ( F ) may break when the upper column cover is pulled up too hard .
Remove the three screws ( A , B ) and disconnect the tilt / telescopic switch connector , then remove the lower column cover ( D ) .
Install the upper and lower column cover in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the tilt / telescopic switch connector is plugged in properly .
Push the hooks into place securely .
A-Pillar Trim
Check spray pattern
Cyprus
Follow the A-pillar trim installation procedure carefully ; improper installation could cause the side curtain airbags to deploy improperly and possibly cause injury .
Take care not to scratch the trim and panels .
The upper clip in the A-pillar trim ( A ) consists of a resin grommet ( B ) and a metal pin .
The groove ( D ) in the grommet secures it to the body panel ( E ) .
The shoulder ( F ) on the grommet is broken during removal , so the clip must be replaced with a new one when the trim is reinstalled .
Pull the front door opening seal away from the A-pillar as needed .
Hit the surface of the A-pillar trim ( A ) with a rubber mallet .
The clip is located under the top of the A-pillar trim near the SIDE CURTAIN AIRBAG ' ' mark ( B ) .
Hitting the trim surface breaks the shoulder on the grommet ( D ) and pushes the pin ( E ) and grommet against the body ( F ) .
The clip must be replaced with a new one when the A-pillar trim is reinstalled .
Finland
Pull the top of the A-pillar trim ( A ) back by hand to remove the pin ( B ) from the grommet remaining in the body ( D ) .
The edge of the headliner ( E ) lies between the A-pillar trim and the guide bracket ( F ) of the trim .
The A-pillar trim shouldn ' t be pulled out too far at a time , or the guide bracket might catch the headliner and bend it .
Remove the A-pillar trim ( A ) by hand to detach the remaining clips , then pull the trim up from the dashboard ( B ) .
Remove the grommet from the body .
The upper grommet must be replaced with a new one because the grommet is damaged during removal .
If the side curtain airbag has been deployed , replace the A-pillar trim with a new one .
If the side curtain airbag has not been deployed , check the A-pillar trim ( A ) and note the following :
To prevent the side curtain airbags from deploying improperly and possibly causing injury , inspect the A-pillar trim and replace it if it has any of these types of damage :
Any cracks , deformations , or stress-whitened areas in the A-pillar trim
Sweden
Any cracks or stress-whitening in the clip and pin seating surfaces ( B )
Damaged guide bracket
Replace the upper grommet with a new one because it will be damaged during removal .
If the clips ( D ) are damaged or stress-whitened , replace them with new ones .
Before installing the A-pillar trim ( A ) , carefully remove the grommet ( B ) from the pin on the upper clip .
Check the overlap between the headliner and A-pillar trim , and if necessary , adjust it .
Carefully reinstall the grommet ( A ) on the pin ( B ) and seat them on the A-pillar trim as shown .
Reinstall the A-pillar trim ( A ) .
Insert the bottom of the trim into the dashboard ( B ) .
Place the trim over the A-pillar , and fit its upper clip ( D ) , the other clips ( E ) and the pin ( F ) into holes ( G ) in the A-pillar , then lightly push the trim into place .
Russia
ensure that the side curtain airbag tether ( H ) is below the clip .
ensure the side curtain airbag isn ' t tucked down under the clips and ribs .
Apply pressure to the areas of the trim on the upper clip until these clip fittings are felt .
If you push too hard , the clip will be damaged , and it will not hold the trim properly .
ensure the upper clip portions of the trim don ' t come off the body by tugging on the trim .
Reinstall the front door opening seal .
B-Pillar Upper / Lower Trim
Take care not to bend or scratch the trim and panels .
Front door sill trim
Rear door sill trim
Front door opening seal , as needed
Rear door opening seal , as needed
Slide the front seat fully forward .
Remove the B-pillar lower trim ( A ) .
Detach the lower clips by pulling the middle of the trim back by hand .
While releasing the upper tabs ( B ) , pull the upper portion of the trim back to release the upper hooks .
Remove the front seat belt lower anchor .
Pull the bottom of the B-pillar upper trim ( A ) back by hand to detach the lower hooks ( B ) .
Detach the upper clip by pulling the top of the B-pillar upper trim .
Pull the trim down to release the upper hook from the side curtain airbag B-pillar bracket ( D ) .
Greece
Pass the front seat belt ( A ) lower anchor out through a hole in the slider ( B ) , then remove the B-pillar upper trim .
If the clips ( A ) are damaged or stress-whitened , replace them with new ones .
If the side curtain airbag has deployed , replace the B-pillar upper and lower trim and all clips on the trim with new ones .
To prevent the side curtain airbags from deploying improperly and possibly causing injury , inspect the trim and replace it if it has any of these types of damage :
Any cracks or deformations in the B-pillar upper trim ( B ) and the upper hook , and any stress-whitened areas in the upper part of the trim
Any cracks or deformations in the B-pillar lower trim ( D ) , and any breakages in the part ( E ) fitted with the B-pillar upper trim
Any cracks or stress-whitened areas in the clips seating surfaces ( F )
Replace any damaged parts with new ones .
ensure the top of the trim overlaps with the headliner correctly .
ensure the pin ( G ) on the front seat belt shoulder anchor adjuster ( H ) and the hole ( I ) on the back of the slider are engaged when installing the B-pillar upper trim .
Scotland
ensure the trim hook is installed into the side curtain airbag B-pillar bracket securely .
Push the clip and hooks into place securely .
Before installing the anchor bolt , ensure there are no twists or kinks in the seat belt .
Trim inspection
Slider engagement with shoulder anchor adjuster
Front Door Sill Area
Detach the hooks ( A ) and tabs ( B ) from the kick panel and B-pillar lower trim ( D ) , and pull the front door sill trim ( E ) up by hand to detach the clips ( F ) , then remove it from the front door opening seal ( G ) .
If necessary , pull the front side outer trim ( H ) up to detach the clips ( I ) , then remove the trim .
Remove the left kick panel ( A ) or the right kick panel ( B ) .
Pull out the door opening seal as needed from the kick panel hooks ( D ) and the door opening flange .
Guyana
Remove the clip ( E ) .
Pull the kick panel back by hand to detach the clip ( F ) , then remove it .
Driver ' s
Passenger ' s
Pull out the front door opening seal ( A ) from the trim hooks ( B ) and around the front door opening flange , then remove the seal .
Rear Door Sill Area
Detach the hooks ( A ) and tabs ( B ) from the B-pillar lower trim and rear side trim panel ( D ) , and pull the rear door sill trim ( E ) up by hand to detach the clips ( F , G ) y , a continuaci ó n , remove it from the rear door opening seal ( H ) .
If necessary , pull the rear side outer trim ( I ) up to detach the clips ( J ) , then remove the trim .
Pull out the rear door opening seal ( A ) from the trim hooks ( B ) and around the rear door opening flange , then remove the seal .
Quarter Pillar Trim
Follow the quarter pillar trim installation procedure carefully ; improper installation could cause the side curtain airbag to deploy improperly and possibly cause injury .
The upper clip in the quarter pillar trim ( A ) consists of a grommet ( B ) and a pin .
The grommet expanded with the pin secures it to the body panel ( D ) .
The projections ( E ) on the pin is broken during removal , so the clip must be replaced with a new one when the trim is reinstalled .
Tailgate weatherstrip , as needed
Second row seat belt lower anchor
Seat belt exit C-pillar cap
Seat belt exit D-pillar cap
Left tailgate side trim
Remove the upper portion of the rear side trim panel , as needed .
Hit the surface of the quarter pillar trim ( A ) with a rubber mallet .
The clip is located in the top of the C-pillar near the SIDE CURTAIN AIRBAG ' ' mark ( B ) .
Hitting the trim surface breaks the projections on the pin ( D ) and pushes it into the grommet ( E ) and against the body ( F ) .
The clip must be replaced with a new one when the quarter pillar trim is reinstalled .
The clip is located in the seat belt exit D-pillar cap opening .
Hitting the trim surface breaks the projections ( B ) on the pin and pushes it into the grommet ( D ) and against the body ( E ) .
The clip must be replaced with a new one when the quarter pillar is reinstalled .
While pulling the upper portion of the rear side trim panel ( A ) back , detach the clips ( B , C ) , then release the lower portion of the quarter pillar trim ( D ) away from the body .
The quarter pillar is still fastened with two upper clips located in the middle of it .
Check for damage
Slovakia
While pulling the lower portion of the quarter pillar trim ( A ) away from the body , hit the surface of the quarter pillar trim with a rubber mallet .
The clip is located in the rear of the hollow ( B ) in the trim .
Slide the upper clip portion ( A ) of the quarter pillar trim ( B ) up at a 45 angle to remove the trim from the clip .
The clip can be removed once the trim is clear .
Remove the quarter pillar trim ( A ) .
If equipped with the premium sound system , disconnect the D-pillar speaker connector ( B ) .
If equipped with power tailgate , pull the power tailgate rod out of the slit ( D ) in the quarter pillar trim .
Hit the remaining upper clip ( A ) with a rubber mallet .
Hitting the clip breaks the projections ( B ) on the pin and pushes it into the grommet ( D ) and against the body ( E ) .
If the side curtain airbag has not deployed , remove the quarter pillar trim and all the clips on the trim with new ones .
Czech Republic
If the side curtain airbag has not deployed , remove the upper clips ( A ) from the removed quarter pillar trim ( B ) and discard them .
Then check the trim and note the following :
To prevent the side curtain airbags from deploying improperly and possibly causing injury , inspect the quarter pillar trim and replace it if it has any of these types of damage :
Any cracks , deformations , or stress-whitened areas in the quarter pillar trim
Any cracks or stress-whitened areas in the clip seating surfaces ( C , D )
If any of the lower clips ( E ) are damaged or stress-whitened , replace them .
Replace the upper clips with new ones .
Before installing the quarter pillar trim ( A ) , whether replaced or reinstalled , temporarily remove the new clips ( B ) .
Check the overlap between the headliner and quarter pillar trim , and if necessary , adjust it .
Carefully reinstall the clips ( A ) to the quarter pillar trim ( B ) .
Hungary
ensure that the grommet is nearest to the top of the pin ( D ) as shown .
Reinstall the quarter pillar trim ( A ) .
If equipped with the premium sound system , reconnect the D-pillar speaker connector ( B ) .
If equipped with power tailgate , pass the power tailgate rod through the slit ( D ) in the quarter pillar trim .
Place the trim over the C-pillar / D-pillar ( E ) , and fit its upper clips ( F ) , and all of the other clips ( G , H ) into holes ( I ) in the body , then lightly push the trim into place .
Apply pressure to the areas of the trim on the upper clips until these clip fittings are felt .
Remove the cargo floor lid ( A ) .
Detach the hooks ( A ) from the rear side trim panel ( B ) , and pull the rear trim panel up by hand to detach the clips , then remove it .
Turn the lock knobs ( A ) 90 , then remove the tool set holder ( B ) .
Remove the screws , then remove the cargo lid hinges ( A ) .
Iceland
Remove the cargo rear trim panel ( A ) .
Remove the tailgate upper trim panel ( A ) .
Detach the hooks ( B ) and tabs from the left tailgate side trim ( D ) and right tailgate side trim ( E ) .
Pull the tailgate upper trim panel back by hand to detach the clips , then remove it .
Remove the left tailgate side trim ( A ) and the right tailgate side trim ( B ) .
Pull out the top of the side trim to detach the clips .
Detach the tabs and hooks ( D ) from the tailgate lower trim panel ( E ) .
Remove the tailgate pull pocket ( A ) .
Pry the hooks ( B ) with a trim tool .
Carefully pull the edge of the tailgate lower trim panel just beside the tailgate pull pocket by hand , and push out the inside hooks ( D ) .
Moscow 123610
Pull down the upper edge of the pocket and release the lower tabs ( E ) .
Disconnect the power tailgate close switch connector ( F ) .
Remove the tailgate light .
Remove the tailgate lower trim panel ( A ) .
Detach the clips ( B ) beside the tailgate latch .
Pull down the panel to detach all of the clips .
Install the trim and panel in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the power tailgate close switch connector is plugged in properly .
Push the clips , hooks , and tubs into place securely .
Rear Side Trim Panel Removal / Installation
Japan
Cargo floor lid
Rear trim panel
Cargo lid hinges
Cargo rear trim panel
Raise the third row seat up , and remove the clips from under the third row seat .
Fold the third row seat-back forward .
Pry out the cover ( A ) and remove the bolt ( B ) , then remove the tie down hook ( two places ) .
Right side :
Pry out the lid ( A ) and remove the screw in the pull pocket .
Open the cargo hook ( A ) .
Korea
Pry out the cover ( B ) and remove the screw .
Pull out the front upper edge of the rear side trim panel ( A ) by hand to release the tabs ( B ) and hooks from the quarter pillar trim ( D ) .
Pull out the rear upper edge of the rear side trim panel ( A ) by hand to release the tabs ( B ) and hooks from the quarter pillar trim ( D ) .
Pull the rear side trim panel ( A ) back by hand to detach the clips ( B , C ) .
Left side on the vehicle without power tailgate
Left side on the vehicle with power tailgate
Right side
Pull the rear side trim panel ( A ) up , then remove it .
On the left side , disconnect the rear accessory socket connector .
If necessary , remove the bolt ( A ) , and on the left side , remove the active damper unit mounting bolts ( B ) , then remove the rear side trim panel support bracket .
ensure the accessory socket connector is plugged in properly .
Push the clips , hooks and tabs into place securely .
Armrest Replacement
Remove the rear side trim panel .
Remove the screws and release the hooks ( A ) , then remove the armrest ( B ) .
Left side
Install the armrest in the reverse order of removal .
Speaker Grille Replacement
Remove the screws and release the hooks ( A ) , then remove the speaker grille ( B ) .
Install the grille in the reverse order of removal .
Slovenia
Remove the headliner .
Closing force check :
With a shop towel ( A ) on the leading edge of the glass ( B ) , attach a spring scale as shown .
Have an assistant hold the switch to close the glass while you measure the force required to stop it .
Read the force as soon as the glass stops moving , then immediately release the switch and spring scale .
Closing force :
200 − 290 N ( 20 − 30 kgf , 44 − 66 lbf )
If the force in not within specification , remove the moonroof motor , then check :
The gear teeth and the inner cable for breakage and damage .
If the gear teeth are broken , replace the motor .
If the inner cable is damaged , remove the frame , and replace the cable .
Do the moonroof control unit input test .
If the motor fails to run or doesn ' t turn smoothly , replace it .
The opening drag .
Go to .
Opening drag check :
Protect the leading edge of the glass with a shop towel ( A ) .
Measure the effort required to open the glass using a spring scale ( B ) as shown .
If the load is over 40 N ( 4 kgf , 9 lbf ) , check :
The side clearance and glass position adjustment .
Check pipe work for damage
For broken or damaged sliding parts .
If any sliding parts are damaged , replace them .
Reset the moonroof control unit after reinstalling the moonroof motor .
Symptom
Diagnostic procedure
Water leaks from moonroof
Check for a clogged drain tube .
Check for a gap between the glass weatherstrip and the roof panel .
Check for a defective or an improperly installed glass weatherstrip or drain channel .
Check for a gap between the drain seal and the roof panel .
Ireland
Wind noise from moonroof
Check for excessive clearance between the glass weatherstrip and the roof panel .
Motor noise from moonroof
Check for a loose motor .
Check for a worn gear or bearing .
Check for a deformed cable assembly .
Moonroof glass does not move , but motor turns
Check for a defective gear or inner cable .
Check for foreign matter stuck between the guide rail and the slider .
Check for a loose inner cable .
Denmark
ensure the cable assembly is attached properly .
Moonroof glass does not move and motor does not turn ( glass can be moved with 5 mm hexagonal wrench )
Check for a blown fuse .
Check for a faulty moonroof switch .
Check for a run down battery .
Check for a defective control unit / motor .
Moonroof glass does not stop at proper flush closed position
Reset the moonroof control unit .
Check glass position adjustment .
Moonroof glass moves in a jerking motion ( moves 40 mm , stops for 0,4 seconds , and repeats )
During auto close operation , moonroof glass reverses when no object is trapped
Check for dirt and debris in the track .
Moonroof glass moves , but there is no AUTO function
Remove the glass .
Move both glass brackets ( A ) to the position where the moonroof normally pivots down , and remove the screws securing the drain channel ( B ) .
Release the drain channel ( A ) from both hooks ( B ) of the drain channel slider by pulling the drain channel forward .
Remove the drain channel ( A ) .
Install the channel in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Push the drain channel onto the hooks until a faint click is heard .
Check the glass position adjustment .
Norway
Let the water run freely from a hose without a nozzle .
Do not use a high-pressure spray .
Remove the frame .
Remove these parts from the frame :
Sunshade
Moonroof motor
Disconnect and remove the rear middle drain tube ( A ) .
Remove the screw securing the sunshade rear stop ( A ) , and remove it from the frame ( B ) .
Release the rear hook of the slide stop by pushing it forward , and pivot the stop up .
Remove the slide stop ( A ) and the drain channel slider ( B ) .
Istanbul
Pivot the glass bracket ( A ) down by sliding the link lifter ( B ) back , then slide the glass bracket back with the link lifter .
Slide the glass bracket ( A ) along with the cable ( B ) back , then remove them from the frame .
Install the slider and cable assembly in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Damaged parts should be replaced .
Apply molybdenum grease to the glass bracket ( A ) and guide rail portion of the frame ( B ) indicated by the arrows .
Before reinstalling the motor , ensure both link lifters are parallel , and in the tilt-up position .
Before reinstalling the motor , install the frame and glass , then check the opening drag .
After reinstalling the motor reset the moonroof control unit .
Moonroof glass
Rear controller and screen
Turkey
Disconnect the motor connector ( A ) , and detach the moonroof wire harness connector ( B ) from the moonroof frame .
Disconnect the drain tubes ( A ) .
With an assistant holding the frame ( A ) , remove the bolts and release the rear middle drain tube clip ( B ) , then remove the frame .
Front drain tube
Kick panel
Remove the glove box damper from the pivot on the glove box .
While holding the glove box ,
Remove the bolts , then move the under-dash fuse / relay box ( A ) as needed .
To remove a front drain valve ( A ) from the body , tie a string to the top end of the drain tube , then pull the front drain tube ( B ) down out of the A-pillar .
Leave the string in the pillar to use when reinstalling the drain tube .
Poland
Rear Drain Tube
Rear side trim panel
Left side :
Subwoofer box
Tie a string to the top end of the rear drain tube ( A ) , then pull the drain tube down out of the pillar .
Install the frame and drain tube in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Before installing the frame , clear the drain tubes and drain valves using compressed air .
When installing , tie the string that was left in the pillar to the top end of the new drain tube and pull it up into the roof .
Check the frame seal .
Clean the surface of the frame .
Lithuania
When connecting the drain tube , slide it over the frame nozzle at least 10 mm .
Install the tube clip ( A ) on the drain tube ( B ) as shown .
After all parts are installed , including the headliner , reset the moonroof control unit .
Adjust the glass position alignment .
Tilt the glass all the way up .
Slide the sunshade all the way back .
Pry out the cap ( A ) , remove the screws ( B ) , release the hooks , and remove the bracket cover ( D ) .
Repeat on opposite side .
Use a TORX T25 bit to remove the bolts ( E ) from the glass brackets ( F ) on both sides .
Remove the glass ( A ) by lifting it up .
Latvia
Do not damage the roof panel .
Install the glass in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Apply medium strength liquid thread lock to the glass mounting bolts before reinstallation .
Use free-flowing water from a hose without a nozzle .
Do not use high-pressure water .
It is normal for some water to seep past the moonroof into the moonroof frame , and exit through the drains .
The roof panel ( A ) should be even with the glass weatherstrip ( B ) , to within 0 + 1 / − 1 mm ( 0 + 0,04 / − 0,04 in . ) all the way around .
If not , make the following adjustment :
Remove the bracket cover .
With a TORX T25 bit , loosen the bolts on each side , and adjust the glass ( A ) .
Ladder Transfer AX2
Belgium
If necessary , repeat on the opposite side .
Roof console bezel
Disconnect the connector ( A ) , and remove the bolts , then remove the motor ( B ) .
Install the motor in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Check the motor operation .
Remove the drain channel .
Slide the sunshade all the way forward .
Disconnect both drain channel rclip ( A ) from both glass brackets ( B ) by pulling the front of them inside , then remove the rclip from both drain channel sliders by lifting them up .
Slide both drain channel sliders ( A ) forward until they contact both glass brackets ( B ) .
Remove the screws , then remove both sunshade slider spacers ( A ) .
Romania
While lifting the front portion of the sunshade ( A ) , move the sunshade forward until you can see both sunshade rear hooks ( B ) .
Do not damage the sunshade and hooks .
Remove the screws , then remove both hooks .
Remove the sunshade ( A ) .
Remove both front sunshade base sliders ( A ) and both rear sunshade base sliders ( B ) .
Install the sunshade in the reverse order of removal , and check the glass position adjustment .
Open the glass fully .
Disconnect the deflector springs ( A ) from the bushings ( B ) on both sides .
Remove the wind deflector ( A ) .
Install the deflector in the reverse order of removal .
Design - Contents
Without Automatic Dimming Mirror
Turn the rearview mirror base ( A ) 90 .
Slide the rearview mirror ( A ) down toward the bottom of the windshield to detach it from the spring ( B ) in the mount .
If necessary , remove the spring from the mount .
Install the rearview mirror in the reverse order of removal .
With Automatic Dimming Mirror
Disconnect the connector ( A ) .
Slide the mirror harness upper cover ( B ) forward , then remove the mirror harness cover from the mirror base ( D ) .
Using a TORX T20 bit , loosen the screw , then slide the rearview mirror ( A ) rearward and off the mount ( B ) .
Install the mirror in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
INTRODUCTION TO THE INITIATIVE
Before installing the mirror , remove the TORX screw , and apply medium strength type liquid thread lock to it .
When prying with a flat-tipped screwdriver , wrap it with protective tape to prevent damage .
Adjust the mirror fully to the upward position .
Insert a long , thin flat-tipped screwdriver under the mirror holder ( A ) .
Slide the tip of the screwdriver between the mirror holder and the actuator ( B ) .
Quickly twist the screwdriver to separate the mirror holder from the mirror actuator .
If necessary , insert the screwdriver further under the mirror holder , and twist it again until the holder is separated from the actuator .
Do not pry up on the mirror holder to separate the two parts , as this can cause either the mirror glass or actuator to break .
Disconnect the mirror defogger connectors ( A ) from the heater pad terminals .
Reconnect the mirror defogger connector .
CONTRIBUTION DEFINITION
Align the tabs ( B ) on the mirror holder so they line up on each side of the actuator tabs ( D ) .
Carefully push on the mirror holder until it locks into place .
Check the operation of the actuator .
Lower the door glass fully .
Front door panel
Front door sash inner trim
While holding the mirror ( A ) , pull back the door weatherstrip ( B ) as needed , then remove the nuts .
Remove the mirror ( A ) .
Install the mirror in the reverse order of removal .
If the vehicle has been in a collision , always inspect the active head restraint , even if they appear reusable , by doing the following procedure .
The new Environmental Design Initiative has been developed to showcase a revitalised performance Brand – our products , our services and our identity – at the place where our customers come into closest contact with us :
Resetting head restraint position
Push the head restraint ( A ) forward fully from the locked position to return the inside inertia lock ( B ) .
Slowly raise the head restraint into the normal position .
Fold the seat-back forward , then recline the seat-back to the first lock position , and adjust the head restraint to the highest position .
Apply masking tape on the top of the head restraint .
Make marks ( A ) on both sides at 285 mm upward from the roots of the head restraint frame ( B ) along the back of the head restraint surface .
Make a center of these points as a datum point ( D ) .
Push the head restraint ( A ) forward , and check :
With a scale , measure the level amount of the head restraint movement .
The head restraint should move more than 50 mm without resistance .
Our Dealers .
If it is less than 50 mm , or the head restraint doesn ' t move smoothly , replace the seat-back frame .
Driver ' s seat
Take care not to bend the cable .
Take care not to tear the seams or damage the seat covers .
Remove the back panel .
Release the hook of the yoke spring ( A ) from the top of the basket ( B ) to loosen the lumbar support cable , then disconnect it .
Release both lower springs ( A ) from inside the seat-back .
Release the lumbar support from both upper springs ( B ) .
Release the hook strips ( A ) , then turn over the seat-back cover ( B ) .
Release the hooks ( A ) , then remove the lumbar support motor cover ( B ) .
The new design has been developed through interaction with Dealers , benchmarked against our competition , and , of course , designed to satisfy our customers .
Disconnect the power lumbar support motor connector ( A ) and remove the nuts , then remove the lumbar support motor ( B ) .
Install the lumbar support in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the connector is plugged in properly , and the cable is connected securely .
To prevent wrinkles when installing a seat-back cover , ensure the material is stretched evenly over the pad before securing the hook strips .
Replace the back panel clips with new ones .
Remove the front seat .
Seat-back cover
Lumbar support motor cover
Driver ' s seat :
Disconnect the lumbar support motor connector ( A ) , and remove the wire ties ( B ) .
The result is a Dealership facility and sign initiative that is flexible , affordable and functional – an innovative and authentic presentation .
Release the push nut ( A ) from the motor side end of the connecting rod ( B ) , gently tap on the motor side of the connecting rod to remove it from the recline motor and both recline adjusters ( D ) .
Remove the rod cover ( E ) .
Remove the bolt , then remove the recline motor ( A ) .
Passenger ' s seat :
Calibrate the clip unit .
Replace the wire ties you removed with new ones .
Replace the push nut with a new one .
ensure the push nut is installed correctly .
Apply medium strength liquid thread lock to the mounting bolt before reinstallation .
Check the operation of the driver ' s seat position sensor after any of these actions :
Based on extensive research , the concept outlined here represents practical , state-of-the -art automotive retailing practices and includes new approaches that are a unique expression of the our brand .
Driver ' s seat position sensor replacement
Cover plate ( front side of driver ' s seat slide rail ) replacement
Calibrate the clip unit after any of the these actions :
Front passenger ' s seat replacement ( including any seat components )
Replacement of the seat weight sensors
After a vehicle collision
Take care not to tear the seams of damage the seat covers .
Remove the seat-back .
From under the seat cushion , disconnect the seat cushion heater connector ( A ) .
Remove the clips and wire tie ( A ) and release the hook strips ( B ) from both sides of the seat cushion .
Check belt for wear or damage
This Standards Manual describes the standards and procedures on how to apply the New European Design .
Outside
Inside
From under the seat cushion , release the hook strips ( A ) and clips ( B ) , then pull back the seat cushion cover .
Remove the silencer ( A ) and seat cushion pad ( B ) from the seat cushion frame .
Pull back the edge of the seat cushion cover all the way around , and release the upholstery ring ( A ) , then remove the seat cushion cover .
To prevent wrinkles when installing a seat cushion cover , ensure the material is stretched evenly over the pad before securing the clips and hook strips .
Replace any upholstery ring you removed with new ones ( A ) .
Install them with commercially available upholstery ring pliers ( B ) .
DTC codes will set if the ignition is turned ON ( II ) with the seats removed .
Remove the screws and release the hook ( A ) , tabs ( B ) , then remove the front cover .
In order to develop and retain a consistent and coherent brand , these guidelines and procedures should be strictly adhered to .
Remove the recline cover ( A ) .
Remove the screw ( B ) and detach the clip and hooks ( D ) .
Pull up the cover , then detach the hooks ( E , F ) .
Disconnect the recline switch and up-down switch connector ( G ) , and on the driver ' s seat , lumbar support switch connector ( H ) .
Remove the wire harness ( I ) from the hook ( J ) .
Remove the center cover ( A ) .
Release the hooks ( B ) .
Pull up the cover , then detach the hook .
From under the seat cushion , release the hook strips ( A ) and pull the seat cushion cover ( B ) back .
Detach the clip fastening the harness sock .
Design - Introduction to the Initiative - Revision 2
Disconnect or detach the connectors , detach the harness clips ( D ) , release the wire ties ( E ) , then pull out the harness ( es ) out through the harness sock .
Side airbag connector ( F )
Seat-back heater harness connector ( G )
Recline motor / lumbar support motor harness connector ( H )
Passenger ' s seat
clip unit harness connector ( I )
Recline motor harness connector ( J )
Remove bolts , then remove the seat-back ( A ) .
Assemble the seat-back and seat cushion in the reverse order of disassembly , and note these items :
If the clips are damaged , replace it with new ones .
Design - Contribution Definition - Revision 2
Push the clip and hooks on the covers into place securely .
Apply multipurpose grease to the moving parts of the seat track .
To prevent wrinkles in the seat cushion cover , stretch the material evenly over the pad before securing the hook strips .
Check the operation of the driver ' s seat position sensor after any of these actions .
Calibrate the clip unit after any of the these actions .
On the passenger ' s seat , do not touch the OPDS sensor in the seat-back pad , and keep it away from oil .
Oil can corrode the sensor causing it to fail .
Detach the clips , release the hooks ( A ) by pulling the bottom of the back panel ( B ) back , then gently pull down the panel to release the hooks from the seat-back frame , and remove the panel .
Detach the clips and hooks in the numbered sequence as shown .
Release the hooks ( A ) , then loosen the seat-back cover ( B ) .
ACTUAL PERCENTAGE CONTRIBUTION TO THE SIGNS TO BE AGREED BY NE PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF ROLL OUT PROGRAMME .
Remove the wire ties .
Pull the recline motor harness / lumbar support motor harness ( A ) ( driver ' s seat ) or recline motor harness ( B ) ( passenger ' s seat ) , seat-back heater harness , side airbag harness ( D ) and the clip unit harness ( E ) ( passenger ' s seat ) out through the holes ( F ) in the seat-back cover .
Driver ' s seat-back
Passenger ' s seat-back
Turn over the seat-back cover ( A ) , detach the hooks ( B ) , then remove the clip unit cover .
Disconnect the OPDS sensor connectors ( D ) , then detach the harness clips ( E ) .
Release the front hook ( A ) and rear hook ( B ) of the reinforcing cloth from seat-back frame ( D ) .
Pull out the head restraint guides ( A ) while pinching the tabs on the end of the guides , and remove them .
Remove the seat-back cover ( A ) and seat-back pad ( B ) from the seat-back frame .
Pull back the edge of the seat-back cover all the way around , and release the upholstery ring ( A ) , then remove the seat-back cover .
INCLUDED WITHIN THIS CONTRIBUTION
Reinitialize the clip unit .
To prevent wrinkles when installing a seat-back cover , ensure the material is stretched evenly over the pad before securing the clips , hooks , and hook strips .
Reinstall the front hook and rear hook ( D ) of the reinforcing cloth ( E ) securely .
Use only original Acura replacement seat-back covers .
ensure the recline motor harness / lumbar support motor harness ( driver ' s seat ) or recline motor harness ( passenger ' s seat ) , side airbag harness , seat-back heater harness , and clip unit harness ( passenger ' s seat ) are routed properly .
Remove the armrest .
Remove the armrest beverage holder from the armrest .
Unzip the armrest cover ( A ) .
Release the hooks ( A ) .
Pull back the armrest cover ( A ) all the way around , then separate the armrest cover and pad ( B ) .
GENERALLY
Install the cover in the reverse order of removal , and to prevent wrinkles , ensure the material is stretched evenly over the pad before securing the hooks .
Remove the center head restraint .
Pull out the head restraint guides ( A ) while pinching the end of the guides , and remove them .
Remove the screws , gently pull out the rear armrest cover ( A ) to release the hooks ( B ) of the armrest panel , then remove the cover .
Pull back the ISO-FIX trim ( A ) .
Remove the armrest panel ( A ) .
Remove the screws ( B ) .
Gently pull out the armrest panel to detach the clip and to release the hooks ( D ) .
Install the armrest panel in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Push the clip and hooks on the panel into place securely .
Remove the right second row seat .
Remove the right second row seat-back cover / pad from the seat-back frame .
Disconnect the third row seat access cables ( A ) and detach the clips ( B ) , then remove the cable by pinching the hooks of the holder .
Install the cable in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure each cable is connected securely .
If necessary , remove the clip ( A ) , then adjust the inner side end of the third row seat access cables ( B ) to obtain no clearance between the cable end and the recline lever fitting .
Fix at the middle groove in the outer side end of the third row seat access cable to obtain a clearance between the cable end and the recline lever fitting .
Check the third row seat access operation :
When operating the third row seat access knob , the inner recline adjuster is unlocked first , the outer recline adjuster is unlocked next , then the seat-back is tilted forward and the seat is allowed to slide forward .
Remove the ISO-FIX bracket outer cover .
Signage production including sign survey , preparation of Scheme Drawings and quotations , acquisition of Planning Permission including fees and local newspaper notices , material procurement , internal framework , electrical connections , illumination ( log life fluorescent tubes , fully electronic weatherproof ballasts , lift off access panels ) , assembly , packaging , transportation , shipping , insuring , delivery and un-loading of the signs on site .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the bolt , then remove the washer ( A ) and wave washer ( B ) .
Slide the armrest ( A ) toward the left side of the vehicle .
Remove the pivot shaft ( B ) from the bushings on the passenger ' s side of the vehicle by pulling up on the armrest , and remove the pivot shaft from the bushing ( D ) by pulling up on the armrest .
Remove the armrest ( A ) and bushings ( B ) .
Install the armrest in the reverse order of removal , and check if the bushing are damaged or stress- whitened , and if necessary , replace them with new ones .
Seat-back Cover
Remove the second row seat .
Remove the head restraint .
From under the seat cushion , release the hooks ( A ) of the back cover carpet ( B ) from the seat cushion frame , then pull the carpet back .
Left second row seat
Right second row seat
With seat heater :
Disconnect the seat cushion heater connector and remove the wire tie ( D ) .
Remove the third row seat access knob ( A ) .
Peel off the label ( B ) and remove the screw , then remove the third row seat access trim ( D ) by detaching the clips ( E ) .
Fold the seat-back forward fully , detach the clips , and remove the back cover ( A ) .
Left seat-back
Right seat-back
Release all of the hooks ( A ) from the back of the seat-back , then pull back the seat-back cover .
If equipped , detach the seat-back heater harness clip ( B ) from the seat-back frame .
Check belt tension
Signage installation including installation of signage including the cost for sign erection , access equipment , cranage and special lifting equipment , fixings to prepared backgrounds , integral lighting , electrical connections , cables , conduits and trenches making good finishes and decoration ( except as in item 4a overleaf ) , waterproofing and flashings , removing and disposal of existing signs .
While pulling the recline lever ( A ) , gently pull out the recliner lever upper housing ( B ) to release the hooks , then remove it .
Release the hook strips ( A ) .
Pull out the seat-back pad ( A ) from the seat-back frame ( B ) , then pinch the end of the head restraint guides to remove them .
Pull out the head restraint guides ( A ) .
Remove the seat-back cover / pad ( A ) from the seat-back frame ( B ) .
Right second row seat :
If necessary , remove the seat-back damper ( A ) from the seat-back frame .
Install the seat-back cover in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
To prevent wrinkles when installing a seat-back cover , ensure the material is stretched evenly over the pad before securing the hooks , hook strips , and clips .
Replace any upholstery ring ( A ) you removed with new ones using commercially available upholstery ring pliers ( B ) .
EXTERNAL SIGNS
ensure the seat heater connector is plugged in properly .
Seat Cushion Cover
Remove the recline outer cover :
Disconnect the seat-back heater connector , detach the seat heater connector ( D ) , and remove the wire ties ( E ) .
Release all of the clip ( A ) and hook strips ( B ) from under the seat cushion .
Left seat cushion
Right seat cushion
Remove the seat cushion cover / pad ( A ) from the seat cushion frame ( B ) .
Pass the retainers ( A ) through the slots in the seat-back pad ( left seat cushion ) .
Pull back the edge of the seat cushion cover all the way around , and release the upholstery ring ( B ) , then remove the seat cushion cover .
Including :
ensure the seat-back heater connector is plugged in properly .
Take care not to scratch the body or tear the seat covers .
Raise the seat-back .
Remove the front foot inner cover ( A ) and front foot outer cover ( B ) from the front of the seat tracks .
Fold the seat-back forward .
Remove the rear ISO-FIX bracket cover cap ( A ) ( left second row seat ) , rear foot inner cover ( B ) , and rear foot outer cover from the back of the seat tracks .
From the front of the seat tracks , remove the bolts securing the second row seat ( A ) .
From the back of the seat tracks , remove the bolts securing the second row seat ( A ) .
Lift up the front seat , then detach the harness clip ( A ) , and disconnect the seat-back heater connector ( B ) .
With the help of an assistant , carefully remove the second row seat through the rear door opening .
Entrance Statement / Entry Element ( all size types including entrance statement , panel , Brandmark and free standing Entrance Statement if circumstances dictate but subject to approval and excluding foundations ) .
Install the seat in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Apply medium strength liquid thread lock to the seat mounting bolts before reinstallation .
Tighten the seat mounting bolts to the specified torque in the sequence shown .
Tighten and , then tighten and , and on the left second row seat , also tighten .
If equipped , ensure the seat heater connector is plugged in properly .
Tighten the bolts by hand first , then tighten them to specification with a torque wrench .
Left Second Row Seat
Disconnect the seat-back heater connector , detach the seat heater connector ( D ) , and remove the wire tie ( E ) .
Gently pull out the recline outer cover ( A ) to detach the clips and to release the hooks ( B ) of the recline inner cover , then remove the cover while releasing the inside edge of the cover from the recline adjuster ( D ) .
Remove the screw ( A ) , gently pull out the recline inner cover ( B ) to detach the clip , then remove it .
Louvres ( to main elevations , secondary elevations subject to approval ) .
Gently pull out the ISO-FIX bracket outer cover ( A ) to detach the clip .
Release the hooks ( B ) from the ISO-FIX bracket inner cover , and release the hook ( D ) of the inner cover from the outer cover , then remove the cover while releasing the inside edge of it from the ISO-FIX bracket ( E ) .
Remove the screw ( A ) gently pull out the ISO-FIX bracket inner cover ( B ) to detach the clips , then remove it .
Remove the screw , gently pull out the rear center outer cover ( A ) to release the hooks ( B ) from the center inner cover , and to release the hooks ( D ) of the inner cover from the outer cover , then remove it .
Gently pull out the center inner cover ( A ) to detach the clip , then remove it .
Remove the seat cushion ( A ) .
Remove the seat belt buckles ( B ) and seat belt detachable anchor from the elastic straps ( D ) .
Remove the nuts ( E ) .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the bolts ( F ) .
Remove the screw , then remove the front center outer cover ( A ) .
Dealers Name sign ( unless considered excessive numbers ) .
Using a TORX T40 bit , remove the bolts ( A , B ) , then remove the seat-back and bushing ( D ) .
If the bushing is damaged or stress-whitened , replace it with a new one .
Replace any damaged clips with new ones .
Replace the wire tie you removed with a new one .
Right Second Row Seat
From under the seat cushion , release the hook ( A ) of the back cover carpet from the seat cushion frame , then pull the carpet ( B ) back .
Release the wire ties fastening the recline cables ( D ) .
Disconnect the seat-back heater connector ( E ) and detach the seat heater connector ( F ) .
Gently pull out the center outer cover ( A ) to remove the screw and to release the hooks ( B ) from the center inner cover , then remove the cover while releasing the inside edge of it from the recline adjuster ( D ) .
Remove the nuts ( A ) .
Pylons and Poles Signs ( excluding foundations ) .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the bolts ( B ) , then remove the seat cushion .
Disconnect the recliner cables ( A ) and the third row seat access rclip ( B ) on both sides , then remove the cables from the clips .
Using a TORX T40 bit , remove the bolts , then remove the seat-back ( A ) .
If the cable clips and rod fasteners are damaged or stress-whitened , replace them with new ones .
Take care not to kink the cables .
Remove the seat-back cover / pad from the seat-back frame .
Recline outer cover
Center outer cover
Remove the screws securing the recline lever ( A ) .
Left second row seat :
Service and Rapid Service signs ( irrespective of how many doors ) .
Detach the clips ( A ) and disconnect the recline outer cable ( B ) and the recline inner cable .
remove the wire ties ( A ) and detach the clips ( B ) , disconnect the recline outer cable and the recline inner cable ( D ) , then remove the cables from the clips ( E ) .
Install the recline lever in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Fix at the middle groove in the end of the recline inner cable ( A ) securely to obtain no clearance between the cable end and the recline lever fitting .
Fix at the middle groove in the end of the recline outer cable ( B ) securely to obtain a clearance between the cable end and the recline lever fitting .
Check the seat-back fold down operation :
When operating the recline lever , the inner recline adjuster is unlocked first , the outer recline adjuster is unlocked next , then the seat-back is folded down fully .
When operating the recline lever , the inner recline adjuster is unlocked first , the outer recline adjuster is unlocked next , then the seat-back is folded down fully without any interference in movement , but the seat doesn ' t slide forward .
The right second row seat is shown ; the left second row seat is similar .
Take care not to scratch the interior trim .
Navigational signs ( excluding foundations ) .
Remove the third row seat .
Seat cushion
Head restraint
Remove the screws securing the seat-back recline lever .
Release the clips at the top of the back cover from the seat-back frame .
Slide the back cover ( D ) up to release the remaining clips ( A , B ) from the keyholes on the frame .
Turn the back cover to pass the recline lever ( E ) through the hole in the back cover .
Release all of the hooks ( A , B ) from behind the seat-back .
Unhook the edge of the seat-back cover ( D ) from the hook ( E ) of the seat-back frame .
Pull the seat-back cover ( A ) back , and release the hooks ( B ) .
Projecting signs .
Pull out the head restraint guides ( A ) while pinching the tabs ( B ) on the end of the guides , and remove them .
Pull back the edge of the seat-back cover ( A ) all the way around , then release all of the upholstery ring ( B ) .
Remove the seat-back cover .
To prevent wrinkles when installing a seat-back cover , ensure the material is stretched evenly over the pad before securing the hook and clips .
Install the back cover , and note these items :
ensure the clips are positioned properly in the keyholes on the back cover .
Align the clips on the back cover with the keyholes on the seat-back frame .
Remove both front mounting bolts .
Release the hook strips ( A ) from under the seat cushion ( B ) .
Remove the pivot bolt cover from both sides .
9800 reverse
Ladder Transfer Rails & Bearings
Pre-site signs ( subject to approval but excluding foundations ) .
Detach the retainers ( A ) from both sides of the link ( B ) , and release all of the hook strips from under the seat cushion ( D ) .
If necessary , release the hooks , then remove the suspension mat ( D ) .
Pull back the edge of the seat cushion cover ( A ) all the way around , release all of the upholstery ring ( B ) , under the right seat cushion cover , then remove the seat cushion cover .
We recommend you that you do not drive for many hours without stopping to rest .
Replace all of the upholstery ring fastening the seat-back cover ( A ) and pad wire ( B ) with new ones using commercially available upholstery ring pliers ( D ) .
Take care not to bend the seat-back recline cable .
The left third row seat is shown , the right third row seat is similar .
Remove the left third row seat or right third row seat .
Remove the back cover , then release the hooks from behind the seat-back , as needed .
Remove the screw and release the hook ( A ) , then remove the outer latch cover ( B ) .
Pre-Owned and Commercial Signs in both Pole and Monument varieties ( excluding foundations ) , including all power connections . .
If necessary , remove the screws , then remove the inner latch cover ( A ) .
Disconnect the seat-back recline cable ( A ) .
Remove the bolts , then remove the latch ( A ) .
ensure the seat-back recline cable is connected securely .
ensure the seat unlatches properly and latches securely .
Detach the third row seat-belt from the detachable anchor .
Remove the front mounting bolt covers ( A ) from both front links .
Remove the front mounting bolts .
Lift the seat cushion up .
Remove the rear mounting bolts while holding the seat cushion .
INTERNAL SIGNS
With the help of an assistant , remove the third row seat through the tailgate opening .
Install the seat in the reverse order of removal , and apply medium strength type liquid thread lock to the seat mounting bolts before reinstallation .
Remove the third row seat-back recline lever .
While holding the lever ( A ) open , carefully pry out the cover ( B ) with trim tool to release the tabs , then remove the cover .
Disconnect the recline cable ( A ) .
Install the third row seat-back recline cable in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the cable is connected securely .
Take care not to kink the seat-back recline cable .
Pry out the lid ( A ) , and remove the screws securing the third row seat-back recline lever ( B ) .
Remove the outer latch cover .
a ) Navigation signs for Parts , Service , Reception ( wall and ceiling mounted ) and
Disconnect the seat-back recline cable .
Remove the clips , then remove the seat-back recline lever ( A ) with the recline cable ( B ) .
Install the lever in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure the recline cable is connected securely .
Disconnect the power door lock actuator connector ( A ) , and remove the plug caps ( B ) .
Pass the cables and the harnesses ( D ) through the slits ( E ) in the plastic cover ( F ) , then remove the plastic cover .
Carefully lower the glass ( A ) until you can see the bolts , then remove them .
Carefully pull the glass out through the window slot .
Take care not to drop the glass inside the door .
Disconnect the connector ( A ) from the regulator ( B ) .
workshop signage .
Remove the bolts , and loosen the bolts ( D ) , then remove the regulator through the hole in the door .
Apply multipurpose grease to all the sliding surfaces of the regulator ( A ) where shown .
Install the glass and regulator in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Roll the glass up and down to see if it moves freely without binding .
ensure that there is no clearance between the glass and glass run channel when the glass is closed .
Adjust the position of the glass as necessary .
Do the power window control unit reset procedure .
Test-drive and check for wind noise and rattles .
ensure the power door locks , windows and power mirror operate properly .
Remove the plug caps .
EXCLUDED FROM OUR CONTRIBUTION
Pass the cables ( D ) and the harnesses ( E ) through the slits ( F ) in the plastic cover ( G ) , then remove it .
NOTE If the plastic cover is damaged or torn , replace it .
Carefully move the glass ( A ) until you can see the bolts , then remove them .
Release the glass from the holder ( B ) , then remove it from the regulator , and carefully lower the glass .
Pull the glass run channel ( A ) away as needed .
Loosen the nut ( B ) , and remove the bolt and collar ( D ) from the rear lower channel ( E ) .
Pull the rear lower channel ( A ) forward , then remove the nut portion ( B ) from the door .
Release the channel from the glass , then pull the channel upward to remove it through the window slot .
Remove the rear lower channel ( A ) from the glass run channel ( B ) .
Carefully remove the glass ( A ) out through the window slot .
E XTERNAL SIGNS
Check the weatherstrip and glass run channel for damage or deterioration , and replace them if necessary .
Place the vehicle on a firm , level surface .
Door panel :
Plastic cover :
Carefully move the glass ( A ) until you can see the glass mounting bolts ( B ) , then loosen them .
Push the glass against the channel , then tighten the glass mounting bolts .
Check that the glass moves smoothly .
Raise the glass fully , and check for gaps .
Also ensure that the glass ( A ) contacts the glass run channel ( B ) evenly .
Run water over the roof and on the sealing area as shown , and note these items :
Non standard , special Dealership or Service signs , Roof and Wall mounted signs deemed to be marketing or advertising unless otherwise agreed and any additional signs added after signing the ICC ( Installation Completion Certificate ) .
Use a 12 mm ( 1 / 2 in . ) diameter hose ( A ) .
Adjust the rate of water flow as shown ( B ) .
Do not use a nozzle .
Hold the hose about 300 mm away from the door .
Attach the plastic cover , making sure it is sealed around its outside perimeter to seal out water , then install the door panel :
Wear eye protection when removing the glass with piano wire .
Use seat covers to avoid damaging any surfaces .
Do not damage the rear window defogger grid lines and terminals .
Tailgate spoiler trim
Tailgate lower trim panel
All new foundations associated with new signage and the provision of new electrics , including cabling , conduits , distribution board and supply including foundations and electrics for the Entrance Statements , Pylons / Pole Signs , Roof / Wall Signs ( new ) and all other signs .
Rear window wiper motor
Disconnect the rear window defogger connectors ( A ) .
If the old rear window will be reinstalled , make alignment marks across the glass and body with a grease pencil .
Apply protective tape along the inside and outside edges of the tailgate .
Using an awl , make a hole through the adhesive from inside the vehicle at the corner portion of the rear window .
Push the piano wire through the hole , and wrap each end around a piece of wood .
With a helper on the outside , pull the piano wire ( A ) back and forth in a sawing motion .
Hold the piano wire as close to the rear window ( B ) as possible to prevent damage to the tailgate , and carefully cut through the adhesive around the entire rear window .
Cutting positions
Carefully remove the rear window .
With a putty knife , scrape the old adhesive smooth to a thickness of about 2 mm on the bonding surface around the entire rear window opening flange :
Do not scrape down to the painted surface of the body ; damaged paint will interfere with proper bonding .
Remove the fasteners from the tailgate .
Clean the tailgate bonding surface with a sponge dampened in isopropyl alcohol .
After cleaning , keep oil , grease and water from getting on the surface .
If a new rear window is to be installed , install the rear wiper seal ( A ) to the rear window ( B ) with its alignment mark being aligned with the mark ( D ) on the rear window .
If the old rear window is to be reinstalled , check for a damaged rear wiper seal , and replace it with a new one .
If the old rear window is to be reinstalled , use a putty knife to scrape off all of the old adhesive , the fasteners and the rubber dams from the rear window .
Clean the inside face and the edge of the rear window with alcohol where new adhesive is to be applied .
ensure the bonding surface is kept free of water , oil and grease .
SCOPE & PURPOSE
All Banners , Flags , Poles and the re-fixing of old Roof / Wall signs .
Attach the rubber dam ( A ) , fasteners ( B , C ) , and spacer ( D ) with adhesive tape to the inside face of the rear window ( E ) as shown .
Before installing the rubber dam , apply primer to the area where the adhesive tape will be applied to the inside face of the rear window :
Be sure the fasteners and rubber dam line up with alignment marks ( F ) .
Be careful not to touch the rear window where adhesive will be applied .
Rubber dam adhesive tape :
Fasteners adhesive tape :
Spacer adhesive tape :
Attach the fasteners ( A , B ) with adhesive tape to the tailgate as shown .
Set the rear window ( A ) in the opening , and center it .
Make alignment marks ( B ) across the rear window and body with a grease pencil at the four points shown .
With a sponge , apply a light coat of glass primer to the rear window ( A ) along the edge of the rubber dam ( B ) as shown , then lightly wipe it off with gauze or cheesecloth :
With the printed dots on the rear window as a guide , apply the glass primer to both side portions of the rear window .
Do not apply body primer to the rear window , and do not get body and glass primer sponges mixed up .
Never touch the primed surfaces with your hands .
If you do , the adhesive may not bond to the rear window properly , causing a leak after the rear window is installed .
Keep water , dust , and abrasive materials away from the primed surface .
With a sponge , carefully apply a light coat of body primer to any exposed paint around the flange where new adhesive will be applied .
Let the body primer dry for at least 10 minutes :
Do not apply body primer to any remaining original adhesive on the flange .
Be careful not to mix up glass and body primer sponges .
Used Car canopies and electrics .
Cut a V ' ' in the end of the nozzle ( A ) on the adhesive cartridge as shown .
Pack adhesive into the cartridge without air pockets to ensure continuous delivery .
Put the cartridge in a caulking gun , and run a bead of adhesive ( A ) on the rear window ( B ) around the edge of the lower rubber dam as shown .
With the printed dots ( D ) on the rear window as a guide , apply the adhesive to both side portions of the quarter glass .
Apply the adhesive within 30 minutes after applying the glass primer .
Make a slightly thicker bead at each corner .
Use suction cups to hold the rear window over the opening , align it with the alignment marks you made in , and set it down on the adhesive .
Lightly push on the rear window until its edges are fully seated on the adhesive all the way around .
Do not open or close the doors for about an hour until the adhesive is dry .
Scrape or wipe the excess adhesive off with a putty knife or towel .
INTERNAL WORKS *
To remove adhesive from a painted surface or the rear window , use a soft shop towel dampened with alcohol .
After the adhesive has dried , spray water over the rear window and check for leaks .
Mark the leaking areas , and let the rear window dry , then seal with sealant .
Let the vehicle stand for at least 4 hours after rear window installation .
If the vehicle has to be used within the first 4 hours , it must be driven slowly .
Reinstall all remaining removed parts .
Advise the client not to do the following things for 2 to 3 days :
Slam the doors with all the windows rolled up .
Twist the body excessively ( such as when going in and out of driveways at an angle or driving over rough , uneven roads ) .
Wear eye protection while cutting the glass adhesive with a piano wire .
All internal works including :
Use seat covers to avoid damaging the seat .
When replacing a broken windshield , a commercially available windshield cutter can be efficiently used for cutting the adhesive .
For details , follow the instructions of the tool manufacturer .
Cowl cover
Rearview mirror
Without automatic dimming mirror .
With automatic dimming mirror .
Roof moldings
Remove the molding ( A ) from the upper edge of the windshield ( B ) .
If necessary , cut the molding with a utility knife .
Reception counters , Brand Walls , POS , furniture , finishes , fixtures and fittings , external direct lighting including electrics .
If the old windshield will be reinstalled , make alignment marks across the glass and body with a grease pencil .
Pull down the front portion of the headliner .
Take care not to bend the headliner excessively , or you may crease or break it .
Apply protective tape along the edge of the dashboard and body .
Using an awl , make a hole through the rubber dam and adhesive from inside the vehicle at the corner portion of the windshield .
Push a piece of piano wire through the hole , and wrap each end around a piece of wood .
Hold the piano wire as close to the windshield ( B ) as possible to prevent damage to the body and dashboard .
Carefully cut through the rubber dam and adhesive around the entire windshield .
Carefully remove the windshield .
With a knife , scrape the old adhesive smooth to a thickness of about 2 mm on the bonding surface around the entire windshield opening flange :
Upgrades of buildings or interiors and maintenance works to the existing buildings .
Remove the rubber dam and fasteners from the body .
After cleaning , keep oil , grease and water from getting on the clean surface .
If the old windshield will be reinstalled , use a putty knife to scrape off the old adhesive , the clips the rubber dam , and the dashboard seal from the windshield .
Clean the inside face and the edge of the windshield with isopropyl alcohol where new adhesive will be applied .
ensure the bonding surface is kept free of water , oil , and grease .
Attach the upper rubber dam ( A ) , lower rubber dam ( B ) , and clips with adhesive tape to the inside face of the windshield ( D ) as shown :
Be sure the rubber dam and clips line up with the alignment marks ( E ) .
Be sure the convex porsion of the left and right clips face toward the left .
Be careful not to touch the windshield where adhesive will be applied .
Rubber dams adhesive tape :
INTERNAL SIGNAGE
Clips adhesive tape :
Attach the dashboard seal ( A ) with adhesive tape to the inside surface of the windshield ( B ) as shown .
Attach the molding ( A ) with adhesive tape ( B ) to the upper edge of the windshield .
Molding adhesive tape :
Attach the molding upper seal ( A ) with adhesive tape to the inside surface of the molding ( B ) as shown .
Set the windshield in the opening , and center it .
Make alignment marks ( A ) across the windshield and body with a grease pencil at the four points shown .
ensure both clips ( B ) contact with the edge of the body holes .
With a sponge , apply a light coat of glass primer around the edge of the windshield ( A ) between the dams ( B ) and molding as shown , then lightly wipe it off with gauze or cheesecloth :
Apply glass primer to the molding .
Toilet , personnel ( staff office and facilities ) and regulatory signage .
Do not apply body primer to the windshield , and do not get body and glass primer sponges mixed up .
If you do , the adhesive may not bond to the windshield properly , causing a leak after the windshield is installed .
Keep water , dust , and abrasive materials away from primed surfaces .
With a sponge , carefully apply a light coat of body primer to any exposed paint or metal around the flange where new adhesive will be applied .
Let the primer dry for at least 10 minutes :
Be careful not to mix up the body and glass primer sponges .
Put the cartridge in a caulking gun , and run a bead of adhesive ( A ) around the edge of the windshield ( B ) between the dams and molding ( D ) as shown .
Use suction cups to hold the windshield over the opening , align it with the alignment marks made in , and set it down on the adhesive .
Lightly push on the windshield until its edges are fully seated on the adhesive all the way around .
To remove adhesive from a painted surface or the windshield , wipe with a soft shop towel dampened with isopropyl alcohol .
OTHER ITEMS
After the adhesive has dried , spray water over the windshield and check for leaks .
Mark leaking areas , and let the windshield dry , then seal with sealant .
Let the vehicle stand for at least 4 hours after windshield installation .
With Power Tailgate
If the tailgate latch can ' t be unlocked by using the keyless entry transmitter or the inside / outside tailgate switches , remove the maintenance lid ( A ) from the tailgate lower trim panel , then turn the emergency lever ( B ) clockwise as shown .
If you remove the tailgate latch while the negative battery cable is still connected , the vehicle goes into the failsafe mode .
Disconnect the tailgate latch connector ( A ) and actuator connector ( B ) .
Remove the bolts ( C , D ) .
Pull the tailgate latch ( E ) out , then remove it .
This handbook is an aid to simplify the operation of and to become familiar with the machine .
Additional surveys , re-draws , photographs , and additional site visits , planning appeals , landlords requirements , support steelwork ( other than that included within the sign construction and fixing brackets , special access , additional remote lighting , overtime work , temporary re-instatements , rainwater disposal , excessive making good after the removal of existing signs , landscaping , tarmacadam and concreting works , unseen variations , works in conjunction with items found on site , provisional sums and contingencies and any abnormal costs .
ensure the tailgate opens properly and locks securely .
Front receiver line to the A / C condenser ( 6 x 1,0 mm ) :
9,8 Nm ( 1,0 kgfm , 7,2 lbfft )
Front receiver line to the front evaporator ( 6 x 1,0 mm ) :
FRONT RECEIVER LINE
Front suction line to the suction hose ( 6 x 1,0 mm ) :
Front suction line to the front evaporator ( 6 x 1,0 mm ) :
FRONT SUCTION LINE
125 mL ( 4 2 / 9 floz )
FRONT EVAPORATOR TEMPERATURE SENSOR
Removal , re-instatement or re-siting of burglar alarms or any other site security installations , replacement or alteration of glazing ( including dot matrix ) , relocation of entrances or walkways and introduction of cladding / decoration , sub-structure works to enable the installation of the signs , general property improvements , maintenance and repair work including landscaping , improvements , extensions or alterations to the internal electrical installation inward of and including fireman ’ s switches , the provision of new electrical sources for illuminated signs not associated with or caused by our programme signage and any other items not associated with the programme .
TEMPERATURE INSPECTIONSECTION
HUMIDITYINSPECTIONSECTION
HUMIDITY LEVEL ( % rh )
FRONT DUAL AIR MIX CONTROL
REAR CLIMATECONTROL PANEL
REAR AIR MIX CONTROL
With i-Tri
CLIMATE CONTROL UNIT CONNECTOR A ( 40P )
CLIMATE CONTROL UNIT CONNECTOR B ( 14P )
REAR CLIMATE CONTROL PANEL 10P CONNECTOR
Translation costs of any project documentation from English to the local distributors ’ language .
DRIVER ' S TEMPERATURE INDICATOR
UNDER-DASH FUSE / RELAY BOX CONNECTOR X ( 39P )
FRONT MODE CONTROL MOTOR
FRONT POWER TRANSISTOR
REAR HEAT / VENT DOOR
REAR EVAPORATOR TEMPERATURE SENSOR
REAR SUCTION / RECEIVER LINES
Front receiver line to the rear receiver line ( 16 x 1,5 mm ) :
13,2 Nm ( 1,4 kgfm , 9,8 lbfft )
Rear suction / receiver lines to rear evaporator ( 6 x 1,0 mm ) :
Any charges due to specific re-cycling regulations , double handling , central storage , licences and charges associated with environmental activities .
Front suction line to rear suction line ( 24 x 1,5 mm ) :
31,9 Nm ( 3,3 kgfm , 23,5 lbfft )
REAR OUTLET HEATER HOSE
REAR OUTLET HEATER LINE
REAR INLET HEATER LINE
REAR INLET HEATER HOSE
REAR EVAPORATOR TEMPERATURE SENSOR 2P CONNECTOR
FRONT EVAPORATOR TEMPERATURE SENSOR 2P CONNECTOR
FRONT MODE CONTROL MOTOR 7P CONNECTOR
FRONT BLOWER MOTOR 2P CONNECTOR
FRONT POWER TRANSISTOR 4P CONNECTOR
FRONT BLOWER MOTOR RELAY 4P SOCKET
HUMIDITY / IN-CAR TEMPERATURE SENSOR 4P CONNECTOR
AUDIO UNIT CONNECTOR C ( 24P )
When the refrigerant is below196 kPa ( 2,0 kgf / cm2 , 28 psi ) or above 3.140 kPa ( 32 kgf / cm2 , 455 psi ) , the PCM turns the compressor relay off to protect
FRONT BLOWER FAN
FRONT EVAPORATOR ( Absorption of heat )
FRONT BLOWER MOTOR
Interest charges accruing from late or delayed payments associated with the sign contractor .
RELAY BLOCK in the UNDER − HOOD FUSE / RELAY BOX
No . 1 ( BAT ) ( 120 A )
No . 2 ( RR BLOWER ) ( 30 A )
MAIN UNDER − HOOD FUSE BOX
No . 7 ( 7,5 A ) FUSE in the RELAY CONTROL MODULE
FRONT BLOWER MOTOR RELAY
TRANSMISSION RAGE SWITCH ( P , N )
REAR BLOWER MOTOR
REAR AIR MIXCONTROL MOTOR
REAR CLIMATE CONTROL PANEL
No . 22 ( 7,5 A ) FUSE in the RELAY BLOCK ( Via interior light relay )
DRIVER ' S AIR MIXCONTROL MOTOR
Increases in insurance premiums , finance costs and charges and site and energy running costs .
HUMIDITY / IN − CAR TEMPERATURE SENSOR
FRONT EVAPORATOR CORE
FRONT EXPANSION VALVE ( Located in the front evaporator core )
FRONT EVAPORATOR
HUMIDITY / IN-CAR
Compressed air mixed with the R-134a forms a combustible vapor .
The vapor can burn or explode causing serious injury .
Never use compressed air to pressure test R-134a service equipment or vehicle air conditioning systems .
Air conditioning refrigerant or lubricant vapor can irritate your eyes , nose , or throat .
Be careful when connecting service equipment .
Do not breathe refrigerant or vapor .
The air conditioning system uses HFC-134a ( R-134a ) refrigerant and polyalkyleneglycol ( PAG ) refrigerant oil , which are not compatible with CFC-12 ( R-12 ) refrigerant and mineral oil .
Do not use R-12 refrigerant or mineral oil in this system , and do not attempt to use R-12 servicing equipment ; damage to the air conditioning system or your servicing equipment will result .
Use only service equipment that is U . L . -listed and is certified to meet the requirements of SAE J2210 to remove R-134a from the air conditioning system .
If accidental system discharge occurs , ventilate the work area before resuming service .
R-134a service equipment or vehicle air conditioning systems should not be pressure tested or leak tested with compressed air .
Additional health and safety information may be obtained from the refrigerant and lubricant manufacturers .
Always disconnect the negative cable from the battery whenever replacing air conditioning parts .
Keep moisture and dirt out of the system .
Works under any maintenance agreement , repair work and any acquisition of spares or extras by the NSC or Authorised Dealers including all extra letters , slats , panels , bulbs , tubes , cables , switches , transformers and the like after the signing of the Final Certificate for each Authorised Dealer site .
When disconnecting any lines , plug or cap the fittings immediately ; don ' t remove the caps or plugs until just before you reconnect each line .
Before connecting any hose or line , apply a few drops of refrigerant oil to the O-ring .
When tightening or loosening a fitting , use a second wrench to support the matching fitting .
When discharging the system , use an R-134a refrigerant recovery / recycling / charging station ; don ' t release refrigerant into the atmosphere .
Performance Test
The performance test will help determine if the A / C system is operating within specifications .
Connect an R-134a refrigerant recovery / recycling / charging station to the high-pressure service port and the low-pressure service port , following the equipment manufacturer ' s instructions .
Determine the relative humidity and air temperature .
Remove the glove box stop on right side , then let the glove box hang down .
It contains important instructions on how to operate the machine safely , correctly and economically .
Insert a thermometer ( A ) in the center vent .
Place a thermometer ( B ) near the blower unit ' s recirculation inlet duct .
Test conditions :
Avoid direct sunlight .
Open hood .
Open front doors .
Set the temperature control switch to Max Cool , the mode control switch to Vent , and the recirculation control switch to Recirculate .
Turn the A / C switch ON and the fan switch to Max .
Run the engine at 1.500 rpm .
No driver or passengers in the vehicle .
All claims , disputes and arbitration costs and awards associated with the sign contractor or Authorised Dealers including claims associated with ‘ force majeure ’ .
After running the air conditioning for 10 minutes under the above test conditions , read the delivery temperature from the thermometer in the center vent , the intake temperature near the blower unit , and the discharge ( high ) and suction ( low ) pressures on the A / C gauges .
To complete the vent ( delivery ) / ambient air ( intake ) temperature chart :
Mark the vent ( delivery ) temperature on the vertical line .
Mark the ambient air ( intake ) temperature on the bottom line .
Draw a vertical line from the ambient air ( intake ) temperature mark .
Draw a horizontal line from the vent ( delivery ) temperature mark until it intersects the vertical line .
The vent temperature and ambient air temperature should intersect in the shaded area .
Any measurements outside the area may indicate the need for further inspection .
To complete the high side ( discharge ) pressure / ambient air ( intake ) temperature chart :
Mark the high side ( discharge ) pressure pressure on the vertical line .
Draw a horizontal line from the high side ( discharge ) pressure mark until it intersects the vertical line .
The high side pressure and ambient air temperature should intersect in the shaded area .
To complete the low side ( suction ) pressure / ambient air ( intake ) temperature chart :
Mark the low side ( suction ) pressure along the vertical line .
Mark the ambient air ( intake ) temperature along the bottom line .
Draw a horizontal line from the low side ( suction ) pressure mark until it intersects the vertical line .
The low side pressure and ambient air temperature should intersect in the shaded area .
Pressure Test
Test results
Related symptoms
All sales , promotional , advertising and marketing signs and other associated material .
Probable cause
Remedy
Discharge ( high ) pressure abnormally high
After stopping A / C compressor , pressure drops about 196 kPa ( 2,0 kgf / cm2 , 28 psi ) quickly , and then falls gradually .
Air in system
Recover , evacuate , and recharge with specified amount .
Reduced or no airflow through A / C condenser .
Clogged condenser or radiator fins
A / C condenser or radiator fan not working properly
Clean .
APPROVALS AND FEES
Check voltage and fan rpm .
Check fan direction .
Line to A / C condenser is excessively hot .
Restricted flow of refrigerant in system
Restricted lines .
Discharge pressure abnormally low
High and low-pressures are balanced soon after stopping A / C compressor .
Low side is higher than normal .
Faulty A / C compressor discharge valve
Faulty A / C compressor seal
No contribution is payable against submissions for approvals with local authorities regarding non signage related applications and landlords fees together with any associated direct or indirect Authorised Dealers ’ , NSC ’ s or their consultants ’ charges and fees including fees or charges outstanding from previous sign applications and permits .
Replace the A / C compressor .
Outlet of expansion valve is not frosted , low-pressure gauge indicates vacuum .
Faulty expansion valve
Moisture in system
Replace .
Recover , evacuate , and recharge with specified amount .
Suction ( low ) pressure abnormally low
Expansion valve is not frosted , and low-pressure line is not cold .
Low-pressure gauge indicates vacuum .
Frozen expansion valve ( Moisture in system )
No contribution is payable against other incidental costs including fees for professional consultants including architects , project managers , structural engineers including analysis and testing of existing foundations , building and party wall surveyors and legal costs .
Replace the expansion valve .
Discharge temperature is low , and the airflow from vents is restricted .
Frozen evaporator
Run the fan with A / C compressor off , then check evaporator temperature sensor .
Expansion valve is frosted .
Clogged expansion valve
Clean or replace .
Receiver / dryer outlet is cool , and inlet is warm ( should be warm during operation ) .
Clogged receiver / dryer
Suction pressure abnormally high
* INTERNAL WORKS
Low-pressure hose and service port are cooler than the temperature around evaporator .
Expansion valve open too long
Repair or replace .
Suction pressure is lowered when A / C condenser is cooled by water .
Excessive refrigerant in system
High and low-pressures are equalized as soon as the A / C compressor is stopped , and both gauges fluctuate while running .
Faulty gasket
Faulty high-pressure valve
Foreign particle stuck in high-pressure valve
Suction and discharge pressures abnormally high
Although NE are not participating commercially in the internal works of the Dealerships , NE expect NSCs to mandate a number of internal branded elements and positively encourage their Dealers to invest in the internal works in accordance with the Standards Manual over time .
Reduced airflow through A / C condenser .
Clogged A / C condenser or radiator fins
Suction and discharge pressures abnormally low
Low-pressure hose and metal fittings are cooler than evaporator .
Clogged or kinked low-pressure hose parts
Temperature around expansion valve is too low compared with that around receiver / dryer .
Clogged high-pressure line
Refrigerant leaks
A / C compressor clutch is dirty .
A / C compressor shaft seal leaking
NE has described its minimum requirements in respect of Finishes , Fixtures and Furniture for small , medium and large facilities which are described elsewhere within the Standards Manual .
A / C compressor bolt ( s ) are dirty .
Leaking around bolt ( s )
Tighten bolt ( s ) or replace A / C compressor .
A / C compressor gasket is wet with oil .
Gasket leaking
A / C fitting is dirty .
Leaking O-ring
Clean the A / C fitting and replace the O-ring .
Before troubleshooting any problem with the air conditioning system , do the following :
With the ignition switch in the LOCK ( 0 ) , inspect the A / C components , pressure lines and hoses for stains that may indicate a refrigerant or a compressor oil leak .
If these instructions are followed , dangers can be avoided , repair costs and down time reduced and the reliability and durability of the machine increased .
NSCs are allowed , and better placed , to attach a definition to small , medium and large facilities within their own Dealer network in respect of sales volume or building footprint area .
Check the condenser for material clogging the fins or for damage to the fins :
Carefully clean any material from the condenser fins with water and detergent .
Be sure to dry the condenser completely .
Inspect the drive belt .
Nothing should penetrate the inside .
ensure no material is blocking the airflow to the condenser .
Check the dust and pollen filter , and replace it if it is clogged .
ensure the exhaust pipe is cold before washing .
Check the operation of the heater valve .
ensure the cable is adjusted properly .
NSCs , in addition , are allowed to increase the no . of bands from the three provided .
Start the engine , turn the air conditioning system on , and allow it to normalize for a few minutes .
Check that the A / C operates at each position of the blower fan switch ( except OFF ) .
Check that the compressor clutch is engaged .
The pressure plate should be rotating at the same speed as the pulley .
Check that the cooling fans operate when the compressor clutch is engaged .
Check that the engine idle speed is correctly maintained when the A / C is switched on and off when the compressor clutch is engaged and disengaged .
Install the receiver / dryer as quickly as possible to prevent the system from absorbing moisture from the air .
Remove the A / C condenser .
Remove the cap ( A ) from the bottom of the A / C condenser .
Remove the O-ring ( B ) and the desiccant .
PROTOTYPES AND INITIAL SITES
Install the receiver / dryer in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Replace the O-rings with new ones , and apply a thin coat of refrigerant oil ( DENSO ND-OIL 8 ) before installing them .
Be sure to use the correct O-rings for HFC-134a ( R-134a ) to avoid leakage .
Install the cap to the specified torque .
It is made of resin and can be easily stripped .
Leak detector , Acura Tool and Equipment
or commercially available
Connect an R-134a refrigerant recovery / recycling / charging station ( A ) to the high-pressure service port ( B ) and the low-pressure service port , as shown , following the equipment manufacturer ' s instructions .
Open the high pressure valve to charge the system to the specified capacity , then close the supply valve , and disconnect the charging station fittings .
Prototypes and Initial Sites - Contents - Revision 2
Select the appropriate units of measurement for your refrigerant charging station .
Refrigerant Capacity :
600 to 650 g
0,60 to 0,65 kg
1,32 to 1,43 lbs
21,2 to 22,9 oz
Check the system for leaks using an R-134a refrigerant leak detector with an accuracy of 14 g ( 0,5 oz ) per year or better .
If you find leaks that require the system to be opened ( to repair or replace hoses , fittings , etc . ) , do the refrigerant recovery .
After checking and repairing leaks , the system must be evacuated .
Measure the amount of refrigerant oil removed from the A / C system after the recovery process is completed .
CONTENTS : .
Be sure to put the same amount of new refrigerant oil back into the A / C system before charging .
When an A / C System has been opened to the atmosphere , such as during installation or repair , it must be evacuated using an R-134a refrigerant recovery / recycling / charging station .
If the system has been open for several days , the receiver / dryer should be replaced , and the system should be evacuated for several hours .
Evacuate the system .
If the low-pressure does not reach more than 93,3 kPa ( 700 mmHg , 27,6 in . Hg ) in 15 minutes , there is probably a leak in the system .
Partially charge the system , and check for leaks .
Add the same amount of new refrigerant oil to the system that was removed during recovery .
Use only DENSO ND-OIL 8 refrigerant oil .
Charge the system with the specified amount of R-134a refrigerant .
Do not overcharge the system ; the A / C compressor will be damaged .
MOLITOR – PARIS , FRANCE
Select the appropriate units of measure for your refrigerant charging station .
Check for refrigerant leaks .
Check the system performance .
Recommended PAG oil :
P / N 38897-PR7-A01AH :
120 mL ( 4 floz )
P / N 38899-PR7-A01 :
40 mL ( 1 1 / 3 floz )
Add the recommended refrigerant oil in the amount listed if you replace any of the following parts .
LES ULIS , FRANCE
To avoid contamination , do not return the oil to the container once dispensed , and never mix it with other refrigerant oils .
Immediately after using the oil , reinstall the cap on the container , and seal it to avoid moisture absorption .
Do not spill the refrigerant oil on the vehicle ; it may damage the paint ; if it gets on the paint , wash it off immediately .
A / C condenser ( including Dryer Desiccant ) .
50 mL ( 1 2 / 3 floz )
Front Evaporator .
Rear Evaporator .
30 mL ( 1 floz )
Line or hose .
10 mL ( 1 / 3 floz )
VANNES , FRANCE
Receiver / Dryer Desiccant .
Leakage repair .
25 mL ( 5 / 6 floz )
A / C compressor .
For A / C compressor replacement , subtract the volume of oil drained from the removed A / C compressor from 125 mL ( 4 2 / 9 floz ) , and drain the calculated volume of oil from the new A / C compressor :
125 mL ( 4 2 / 9 floz ) − Volume of removed A / C compressor = Volume to drain from new A / C compressor .
Even if no oil is drained from the removed A / C compressor , don ' t drain more than 50 mL ( 1 2 / 3 floz ) from the new A / C compressor .
Do not install the A / C compressor into a system unless you are completely sure that the system is free of contamination .
Installing the A / C compressor into a contaminated system can result in premature A / C compressor failure .
ACN - DEN BOSCH , THE NETHERLANDS
If the A / C compressor is marginally operable , run the engine at idle speed , and let the air conditioning work for a few minutes , then shut the engine off .
Recover the refrigerant with a recovery / recycling / charging station .
Remove the drive belt .
Remove the front splash shield .
Remove the front undercover .
Support the front subframe with the engine support .
Remove the bolts and the front subframe stiffener ( A ) .
Install the new front subframe mounting bolt ( B ) .
Disconnect the A / C compressor clutch connector ( A ) .
Remove the bolts and the nut , then disconnect the suction hose ( B ) and discharge hose from the A / C compressor .
Plug or cap the lines immediately after disconnecting them to avoid moisture and dust contamination .
Remove the mounting bolts and the A / C compressor ( A ) .
Be careful not to damage the radiator fins when removing the compressor .
Install the A / C compressor in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Inspect the A / C lines for any signs of contamination .
If you ' re installing a new A / C compressor , you must calculate the amount of refrigerant oil to be removed from it .
A new A / C compressor comes with a full charge of oil .
Replace the O-rings with new ones at each fitting , and apply a thin coat of refrigerant oil before installing them .
Use refrigerant oil ( DENSO ND-OIL 8 ) for HFC-134a DENSO piston type A / C compressor only .
National safety and environment protection specifications must be added to this handbook by the purchaser .
GENEVA , SWITZERLAND
Do not spill the refrigerant oil on the vehicle ; it may damage the paint ; if the refrigerant oil contacts the paint , wash it off immediately .
Be careful not to damage the radiator fins when installing the compressor and the A / C condenser fan shroud .
Charge the system .
A / C clutch holder ,
Robinair 10204 or Kent-Moore J37872 , or Acura Tool and Equipment KMT-J33939
, commercially available
Remove the center bolt while holding the pressure plate ( A ) with a commercially available A / C clutch holder ( B ) .
Remove the pressure plate ( A ) and shim ( s ) ( B ) , taking care not to lose the shim ( s ) .
If the clutch needs adjustment , increase or decrease the number and thickness of shims as necessary , then reinstall the pressure plate , and recheck its clearance .
The shims are available in three thicknesses :
FRANKFURT , GERMANY
0,1 mm , 0,3 mm , and 0,5 mm .
Measure the resistance of the field coil .
If you are replacing the field coil , remove the snap ring ( A ) with snap ring pliers , then remove the pulley ( B ) .
Be careful not to damage the pulley or the A / C compressor .
Remove the screw from the field coil ground terminal ( A ) and bracket ( B ) .
Disconnect the connector from the field coil , then remove the wire harness clip ( D ) .
Remove the snap ring ( E ) with snap ring pliers , then remove the field coil ( F ) .
Be careful not to damage the field coil or the A / C compressor .
Reassemble the clutch in the reverse order of disassembly , and note these items :
Install the field coil with the wire side facing down , and align the boss on the field coil with the hole in the A / C compressor .
FILIALE DI MILANO - MILAN , ITALY
Clean the pulley and A / C compressor sliding surfaces with contact cleaner or other non-petroleum solvent .
Install new snap rings , note the installation direction , and ensure they are fully seated in the groove .
ensure that the pulley turns smoothly after it ' s reassembled .
Route and clamp the wires properly or they can be damaged by the pulley .
Check the pressure plate for discoloration , peeling , or other damage .
If there is damage , replace the clutch set .
Check the pulley bearing play and drag by rotating the pulley by hand .
Replace the clutch set with a new one if it is noisy or has excessive play / drag .
Measure the clearance between the pulley ( A ) and the pressure plate ( B ) all the way around .
If the clearance is not within specified limits , remove the pressure plate and add or remove shims as needed to increase or decrease clearance .
RUHRDEICH , GERMANY
Clearance :
0,30 − 0,60 mm
If the resistance is not within specifications , replace the field coil .
Field Coil Resistance :
3,9 − 4,3 at 68 F ( 20 C )
It is normal for the A / C compressor to turn off under certain conditions , such as low idle , high engine coolant temperature , hard acceleration , or high / low pressure .
Do not use this troubleshooting procedure if the fans are also inoperative with the A / C on .
Refer to the symptom troubleshooting index .
Before doing any symptom troubleshooting , check for powertrain DTCs .
Check the No . 12 ( 40 A ) fuse in the relay block , and the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
WESTOVER - BOURNEMOUTH , GB
If fuse ( s ) blow again , check for a short in the No . 12 ( 40 A ) and No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse ( s ) circuit .
Connect the front blower motor 2P connector terminal No . 2 to body ground with a jumper wire .
Does the front blower motor run at high speed ?
Disconnect the front power transistor 4P connector .
Are the fuses OK ?
YES −
NO −
Replace the fuse ( s ) and recheck .
If the fuse ( s ) blow again , check for a short in the No . 15 ( 30 A ) and No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse ( s ) circuit .
Connect the Polox system to the XTF .
DAN PERKINS - HIGH WYCOMBE , GB
Turn on the A / C .
Check the A / C CLUTCH in the PGM-FI Data List with the Polox system .
Is the A / C CLUTCH on ?
Using the Polox system , confirm the following values in the PGM-FI Data List at idle .
A / C SWITCH
A / C PRESSURE SENSOR
196 − 3.138 kPa ( 2 − 32 kgf / cm2 ) [ 28 − 455 psi ]
Are all the values within specifications ?
Troubleshoot the value that is not within the specifications .
Remove the A / C compressor clutch relay from the relay block , and test it .
WESTWAY – BIRMINGHAM , GB
Is the relay OK ?
Replace the A / C compressor clutch relay .
Measure the voltage between the A / C compressor clutch relay 4P socket terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Is there battery voltage ?
Replace the relay block .
Connect the A / C compressor clutch relay 4P socket terminals No . 1 and No . 2 with a jumper wire .
Does the A / C compressor clutch click ?
Disconnect the jumper wire .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the A / C compressor clutch relay .
Prototypes and Initial Sites - Revision 2 .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) .
Reinstall the A / C compressor clutch relay .
Jump the SCS line with the Polox system .
This step must be done to protect the powertrain control module ( PCM ) from damage .
Disconnect PCM connector A ( 49P ) .
Connect PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminal No . 13 to body ground with a jumper wire .
Does the A / C compressor click ?
Check for loose wires or poor connections at PCM connector A ( 49P ) .
If the connections are good , check the PCM grounds .
If the grounds are good , substitute a known-good PCM , and recheck .
MOLI TOR , PARIS , FRANCE
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original PCM .
Repair open in the wire between the A / C compressor clutch relay and the PCM .
Disconnect the A / C compressor clutch 1P connector .
Check for continuity between the A / C compressor clutch relay 4P socket terminal No . 2 and the A / C compressor clutch 1P connector terminal No . 1 .
Is there continuity ?
Check the A / C compressor clutch clearance , and the compressor clutch field coil .
Repair as needed .
Repair open in the wire between the A / C compressor clutch relay and the A / C compressor clutch .
Remove the relief valve ( A ) and the O-ring ( B ) .
Plug the opening to keep foreign matter from entering the system and the A / C compressor oil from running out .
ACN , DEN BOSCH , THE NETHERLANDS
Clean the mating surfaces .
Replace the O-ring with a new one at the relief valve , and apply a thin coat of refrigerant oil before installing it .
Remove the plug , and install and tighten the relief valve .
Remove the front bumper .
Remove the bolt , then disconnect the discharge hose ( A ) from the A / C condenser .
Remove the bolt , then disconnect the front receiver line ( A ) from the A / C condenser .
Remove the bolts , nut , and the ATF cooler bracket ( A ) .
Loosen the bolts , then remove the A / C condenser upper mount brackets ( A ) .
Remove the hood latch .
Remove the A / C condenser ( A ) by lifting it up .
The handbook must be constantly available at the location of the machine .
Be careful not to damage the radiator and A / C condenser fins when removing the A / C condenser .
Install the A / C condenser in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
If you ' re installing a new A / C condenser , add refrigerant oil ( DENSO ND-OIL 8 ) .
Be careful not to damage the radiator or the A / C condenser fins when installing the A / C condenser .
Adjust the hood latch .
Do not use this troubleshooting procedure if the A / C compressor is inoperative .
Before performing symptom troubleshooting , check for powertrain DTCs .
Replace the fuse ( s ) , and recheck .
Remove the A / C condenser fan relay from the relay block , and test it .
Replace the A / C condenser fan relay .
FILIALE DI MILANO , ITALY
Check the FAN LOW CTRL in the PGM-FI Data List with the Polox system .
Is the FAN LOW CTRL on ?
Substitute a known-good PCM , and retest .
If the symptom / indication goes away with a known-good PCM , replace the original PCM .
Measure the voltage between the A / C condenser fan relay 4P socket terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Replace the under-hood fuse / relay box .
Connect the A / C condenser fan relay 4P socket terminals No . 1 and No . 2 with a jumper wire .
Do the A / C condenser and radiator fans run on low ?
Reinstall the A / C condenser fan relay .
Connect PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminal No . 4 to body ground with a jumper wire .
WESTOVER , BOURNEMOUTH , GB
Check for loose wires or poor connections at PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminal No . 4 . If the connections are good , substitute a known-good PCM , and recheck .
Repair open in the wire between the A / C condenser fan relay and the PCM .
Disconnect the A / C condenser fan 2P connector .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , then set the A / C button and fan control button ON .
Measure the voltage between the A / C condenser fan 2P connector terminal No . 2 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the A / C condenser fan relay and the A / C condenser fan .
Set the A / C button and fan control button OFF , then turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) .
Reconnect the A / C condenser fan 2P connector .
Connect the A / C condenser fan 2P connector terminal No . 1 to body ground with a jumper wire .
DAN P E R KINS , HIGH WYCOMBE , GB
Does the A / C condenser fan run at high speed ?
Replace the A / C condenser fan motor .
Remove the fan control relay from the relay block , and test it .
Replace the fan control relay .
Measure the voltage between the fan control relay 6D socket terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the A / C condenser fan and the fan control relay .
Disconnect the radiator fan 2P connector .
Check for continuity between the fan control relay 6D socket terminal No . 4 and the radiator fan 2P connector terminal No . 2 .
Repair open in the wire between the fan control relay and the radiator fan .
Check for continuity between the radiator fan 2P connector terminal No . 1 and body ground .
WEST WAY , BIRMINGHAM , GB
Replace the radiator fan motor .
Check for an open in the wire between the radiator fan and body ground .
If the wire is OK , check for poor ground at G301 .
Remove A / C diode A from the relay block .
Using the diode setting ( ) on a DVOM , check for current flow in both directions between the A / C diode A terminals No . 1 and No . 2 .
Is there current flow in only one direction ?
Replace A / C diode A .
Measure the voltage between A / C diode A 2P socket terminal No . 2 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and A / C diode A .
Remove the bolts , then disconnect the front receiver line ( A ) and the front suction line ( B ) from the front evaporator core .
Events - Contents - Revision 2
Remove the blower unit .
Disconnect the connector ( A ) from the front power transistor , then remove the harness clip ( B ) .
Remove the self-tapping screws , the expansion valve cover , and the seal ( D ) .
Remove the bolts , the inlet and outlet pipes ( A ) , and expansion valve ( B ) .
Carefully pull out the front evaporator core , then remove the plate ( D ) .
Install the core in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
If you ' re installing a new front evaporator core , add refrigerant oil ( DENSO ND-OIL 8 ) .
ensure that there is no air leakage .
Remove the front evaporator core .
Remove the bolts , then remove the front expansion valve ( A ) and O-rings ( B ) .
Install the front expansion valve in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
ensure that there are no leaks .
Remove the evaporator front temperature sensor .
Dip the sensor in ice water , and measure the resistance between its terminals .
Then pour warm water on the sensor , and check for a change in the resistance .
Compare the resistance readings with the specifications shown in the graph ; the resistance should be within the specifications .
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the front evaporator temperature sensor .
Remove the driver ' s dashboard undercover .
Remove the TPMS control unit .
Disconnect the connector ( A ) from the front evaporator temperature sensor ( B ) , then remove the connector clip .
[ to be announced ]
Remove the self-tapping screw and the front evaporator temperature sensor .
Install the sensor in the reverse order of removal .
The air conditioning system removes heat from the passenger compartment by transferring heat from the ambient air to the evaporator .
The evaporator cools the air with the refrigerant that is circulating through the evaporator .
The refrigerant expands in the evaporator , and the evaporator becomes very cold and absorbs the heat from the ambient air .
The blower fan pushes air across the evaporator where the heat is absorbed , and then it blows the cool air into the passenger compartment .
This vehicle uses HFC-134a ( R-134a ) refrigerant , which does not contain chlorofluorocarbons .
Pay attention to the following service items :
Do not mix refrigerants CFC-12 ( R-12 ) and HFC-134a ( R-134a ) .
They are not compatible .
Buildings - Contents - Revision 2
Use only the recommended polyalkyleneglycol ( PAG ) refrigerant oil ( DENSO ND-OIL 8 ) designed for the R-134a A / C compressor .
Intermixing the recommended ( PAG ) refrigerant oil with any other refrigerant oil will result in A / C compressor failure .
All A / C system parts ( A / C compressor , discharge line , suction line , evaporator , A / C condenser , receiver / dryer , expansion valve , O-rings for joints ) are designed for refrigerant R-134a .
Do not exchange with R-12 parts .
Use a halogen gas leak detector designed for refrigerant R-134a .
R-12 and R-134a refrigerant servicing equipment are not interchangeable .
Use only a recovery / recycling / charging station that is U . L . -listed and is certified to meet the requirements of SAE J2210 to service the R-134a air conditioning systems .
Always recover refrigerant R-134a with an approved recovery / recycling / charging station before disconnecting any A / C fitting .
Humidity / In-car Temperature Sensor
The humidity sensor consists of two sensors .
SPECIFICATION
One sensor is for humidity detection , and the other is for in-car temperature detection .
When the climate control unit receives signals about the in-car condition from the humidity sensor , and judges that the humidity in the vehicle is very low , the climate control unit reduces the compressor run-time .
Engine power loss is kept to a minimum , and fuel economy is increased .
Humidity / In-car Temperature Sensor Quality
The capacitance of the humidity sensor changes by the adsorption and the evaporation of moisture .
The resistance change of the humidity sensor changes the output voltage .
A / C Pressure Sensor
The A / C pressure sensor converts A / C pressure into electrical signals to the PCM .
The pressures can be monitored using the Polox system PGM-FI Data List .
The response of the A / C pressure sensor is shown in the graph .
The SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS must be presented and if necessary explained to ALL persons working on the line .
SITE , BUILDING FORM AND INTERIOR SPACE PLANNING
When the refrigerant is below 196 kPa ( 2,0 kgf / cm2 , 28 psi ) or above 3.140 kPa ( 32 kgf / cm2 , 455 psi ) , the PCM turns the compressor relay off to protect the A / C compressor .
Climate Control Door Positions
Dual Air Mix Control System
i-Dual and i-Tri Climate Control System ( With navigation system )
The i-Dual ' ' climate control system automatically controls the temperature and the vent mode of the air direction to the driver ' s and passenger ' s side , depending on the angle of the sun , and the direction of the vehicle .
It calculates information such as date , time , longitude , and latitude from the navigation system , as well as the radiant strength of the sun from the sunlight sensor , to determine the appropriate mode position and temperature to be directed to each side .
The i-Tri ' ' climate control system is an addition of the automatic controls with the temperature and the vent mode of the air direction to the rear section to the i-Dual ' ' climate control system .
In the event that the navigation system malfunctions , or when driving in areas where the navigation system cannot determine the vehicle position ( non-coverage areas , tunnels , etc . ) , the climate control system will operate the same as a vehicle without a navigation system .
Climate Control Unit Inputs and Outputs
CONNECTOR A
LAYOUT - MEDIUM AND SMALL
Cavity
Wire color
Signal
BACK UP
INPUT
NAVIGATION UNIT ( SI ) *
IG2 ( Power )
BUILDINGSERVICES AND STRUCTURAL CONSIDERATIONS
INPUT / OUTPUT
IN-CAR TEMPERATURE SENSOR
OUTPUT
COMMON POTENTIAL 5 V
SENSOR COMMON GROUND
HEALTH , SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
FRONT BLOWER FEEDBACK
FRONT POWER TRANSISTOR CONTROL
DRIVER ' S AIR MIX POTENTIAL
DRIVER ' S AIR MIX HOT
DRIVER ' S AIR MIX COOL
PASSENGER ' S AIR MIX HOT
PASSENGER ' S AIR MIX COOL
ITEM
FRONT MODE DEF
FRONT MODE VENT
FRESH
RECIRCULATE
NAVIGATION UNIT ( CLK ) *
NAVIGATION UNIT ( SO ) *
HUMIDITY SENSOR
EUROPEAN SPECIFICATION
OUTSIDE AIR TEMPERATURE SENSOR
SUNLIGHT SENSOR
PASSENGER ' S AIR MIX POTENTIAL
FRONT MODE CONTROL MODE 1
RECIRCULATION CONTROL MODE 1
GROUND ( G506 )
CONNECTOR B
REAR AIR MIX COOL
REAR AIR MIX HOT
REMARKS
REAR MODE HEAT
REAR MODE VENT
REAR AIR MIX POTENTIAL
AUDIO UNIT ( HVAC BUS )
REAR CLIMATE CONTROL PANEL ( A / C BUS RX )
REAR CLIMATE CONTROL PANEL ( A / C BUS TX )
REAR BLOWER FEEDBACK
REAR POWER TRANSISTOR CONTROL
Rear Climate Control Unit Inputs and Outputs
CLIMATE CONTROL UNIT ( A / C BUS TX )
CLIMATE CONTROL UNIT ( A / C BUS RX )
Also check for
Rear mode control doors do not change between ceiling vents ( cool ) and floor vents ( hot )
Rear mode control motor circuit troubleshooting
HVAC DTCs
Blown fuse No . 30 ( 10 A ) in the under-dash fuse / relay box
Cleanliness and tightness of all terminals
Blower , heater controls , and A / C do not work
Climate control unit troubleshooting
Poor ground at G506
For new built dealerships no visible brick work at the exterior of the building .
Both fans do not run at low speed with the A / C on ( but the A / C compressor runs with the A / C on )
Radiator and A / C condenser fan low speed circuit troubleshooting
Blown fuse No . 15 ( 30 A ) in the relay block , and No . 30 ( 10 A ) in the under-dash fuse / relay box
The A / C condenser fan does not run at high speed ( but both fans run at low speed and the A / C compressor operates with the A / C on )
A / C condenser fan high speed circuit troubleshooting
Both fans do not run at high speed with the A / C on ( but both fans run at low speed and the A / C compressor operates with the A / C on )
ECT troubleshooting :
ECT sensor 2 circuit low voltage , ECT sensor 2 circuit high voltage
Powertrain DTCs
The A / C compressor clutch does not engage ( but both fans run with the A / C on )
Interior brick-work must be plastered and finished with wallpaper or paint .
A / C compressor clutch circuit troubleshooting
Blown fuse No . 17 ( 7,5 A ) in the relay block , and No . 30 ( 10 A ) in the under-dash fuse / relay box
Blower motor operation
Blower fan ( s ) runs slower than expected in cold weather
It is normal for the blower ( s ) to run slowly until the engine coolant temperature begins to rise .
If the blower continues to run slowly for an abnormal length of time , continue to troubleshoot the problem .
The Polox system does not communicate with the climate control unit or the vehicle
Troubleshoot the XTF circuit
Insufficient heating
SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS
BRICK WORK
Check the coolant level
Check the radiator cap
Check the operation of the air mix control motor and door
Check the coolant temperature during the day
Check the operation of the heater valve
Do not check the blower motor unit for obstructions
Check for air leaks around the ducts and vents
Check the inlet hose temperature
If it is COLD , check for restrictions in the hose , a damaged or leaking thermostat , and a damaged or leaking water pump .
If it is HOT , check for restrictions in the heater core .
Exterior cladding :
Back flush the heater core using standard commercially available equipment , or replace the heater core .
Damaged cylinder head gasket
Do not use this troubleshooting procedure if the radiator fan and / or the A / C compressor is inoperative .
Check for continuity between the fan control relay 6D socket terminal No . 2 and body ground .
Check for an open in the wire between the fan control relay and body ground .
Check for continuity between the fan control relay 6D socket terminal No . 3 and PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminal No . 5 .
Repair open in the wire between the fan control relay and the PCM .
How to Check for DTCs with the Polox system
ensure the ignition switch is LOCK ( 0 ) .
For new buildings standard cladding systems can be used .
Connect the Polox system to the data link connector ( XTF ) ( A ) located under the driver ' s side of the dashboard .
ensure the Polox system communicates with the vehicle and the climate control unit .
If it doesn ' t , troubleshoot the XTF circuit .
Select HVAC / CLIMATE CONTROL in the BODY ELECTRICAL menu .
Select DTCs in the HVAC / CLIMATE CONTROL menu .
Check for DTCs .
If any DTCs are indicated , write down the DTCs , then go to the indicated DTC troubleshooting .
If no DTCs are indicated , refer to symptom troubleshooting .
After troubleshooting , clear the DTCs with the Polox system .
For specific operations , refer to the user ' s manual that came with the Polox system .
Showroom area and Rapid Service :
How to Use the Self-diagnostic Function with the Polox system
Connect the System Diagnostics Tool to the data link connector ( XTF ) .
Select INSPECTION in the HVAC / CLIMATE CONTROL menu .
Select CLIMATE CONTROL SELF TEST in the INSPECTION menu .
How to Use the Self-diagnostic Function without the Polox system
The climate control unit has a self-diagnostic function .
To run the self-diagnostic function , do the following :
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , to cancel the self-diagnostic function .
After completing the repair work , run the self-diagnostic function again to ensure that there are no other DTCs .
Checking if there are any faults
Flat panels in RAL 9006
The temperature display indicates single or multiple DTCs .
If indicator segments A , B , C , E , G , J , M , N , AUTO , and WINDSHIELD DEFROST are on at the same time , there may be an open in the common ground wire .
If no DTCs are present , the indicator remains blank .
DTC ( Driver ' s Temperature Indicator Segment , AUTO , and WINDSHIELD DEFROST Indicator )
Detection Item
A and AUTO
An open in the in-car temperature sensor circuit
B and AUTO
A short in the in-car temperature sensor circuit
C and AUTO
For refurbishment or renovation :
An open in the outside air temperature sensor circuit
D and AUTO
A short in the outside air temperature sensor circuit
E and AUTO
An open in the sunlight sensor circuit
F and AUTO
A short in the sunlight sensor circuit
G and AUTO
An open in the front evaporator temperature sensor circuit
H and AUTO
Flat panels in ACM or stabilized aluminium in RAL 9006
A short in the front evaporator temperature sensor circuit
J and AUTO
An open in the driver ' s air mix control motor circuit
K and AUTO
A short in the driver ' s air mix control motor circuit
L and AUTO
A problem in the driver ' s air mix control linkage , door , or motor circuit
M and AUTO
An open in the passenger ' s air mix control motor circuit
N and AUTO
Proportions of cladding must be :
A short in the passenger ' s air mix control motor circuit
P and AUTO
A problem in the passenger ' s air mix control linkage , door , or motor circuit
Climate control unit lost communication with gauge control module ( ECT message )
An open or short in the front mode control motor circuit
A problem in the front mode control linkage , doors , or motor circuit
A problem in the front blower motor circuit
An open in the rear air mix control motor circuit
Length vs height 2 :
A short in the rear air mix control motor circuit
A problem in the rear air mix control linkage , door , or motor circuit
An open or short in the recirculation control motor circuit
A problem in the recirculation control linkage , door , or motor circuit
A problem in the rear blower motor circuit
An open in the rear evaporator temperature sensor circuit
A short in the rear evaporator temperature sensor circuit
A and WINDSHIELD DEFROST
An open in the humidity sensor circuit , a short in the humidity sensor circuit
CLADDING
B and WINDSHIELD DEFROST
An open in the A / C pressure sensor circuit , a short in the A / C pressure sensor circuit
Displaying Sensor Inputs at the Climate Control Unit
The climate control unit has a mode that displays sensor inputs it receives .
This mode shows you what the climate control unit is receiving from each of the sensors , one at a time , and it can help you determine if a sensor is faulty .
Check these items before using the sensor input display mode
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and check the recirculation door function ; press the recirculation button to switch from FRESH to RECIRC .
The air volume and sound should change slightly .
Set the temperature control knob to the desired test temperature .
When selecting the test temperature , note these items :
Before starting work on this machine for the first time , this complete chapter “ Safety Instructions ” is to be read and applied .
SHOWROOM ELEVATION
Lo ' ' temperature setting will default to MAX COOL , VENT , and RECIRC .
Hi ' ' temperature setting will default to MAX HOT , FLOOR , and FRESH .
58 through 86 F settings will use the automatic climate control logic .
To run the sensor input display mode , follow these steps
Press and hold both the AUTO and RECIRCULATION CONTROL buttons , then start the engine .
After the engine starts , release both buttons .
The display panel control unit will flash the sensor number and then the value for that sensor .
Record the value displayed .
To advance to the next sensor , press the REAR WINDOW DEFOGGER button .
High glazing ( between 4 and 6 meters ) with mounting points for Corporate Signage in front of the glazing .
Displayed Value
In-car Temperature
Outside Air Temperature
Solar Radiation Sensor Value :
Dark = 00 , Flashlight = 04 , Cloudy = 10 , Sunny = 65
Front Evaporator Outlet Air Temperature
Driver ' s and Passenger ' s Air Mix Opening ( Low value indicates cooler air distribution , higher value indicates warmer air distribution )
% of opening
Cladding behind Corporate Signage " Sunrise Silver Metallic "
Vent Temperature Air Out ( TAO )
Vehicle Speed ( Vehicle must be driven to display speed )
A / C Pressure
Rear Air Mix Opening
Rear Vent Temperature Air Out ( TAO )
Rear Evaporator Outlet Air Temperature
Humidity Sensor Value
FRAMES
Fog Margin
Solar Radiation azimuth ( With navigation system )
Solar Radiation angle of elevation ( With navigation system )
The sensor values will be displayed in degrees Celsius ( C ) or an alphanumeric code .
Use the chart to convert the value to degrees Fahrenheit ( F ) .
If the sensor value displays Er ' ' this indicates there is an open or short in the circuit or sensor .
Check for DTCs using the Polox system , or refer to checking DTCs by DTC indication .
If necessary , compare the sensor input display to a known-good vehicle under the same test conditions .
If the sensor is out of the normal range , refer to the sensor test or substitute a known-good sensor , and recheck .
To cancel the sensor input display mode , press the AUTO button or turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) .
When factory painted
Celsius to Fahrenheit Conversion Table
Alphanumeric Conversion Table
Display Reading ( Alphanumeric )
A1 thru A9
− 1 thru − 9
30 thru 16
B0 thru B9
− 10 thru − 19
14 thru − 2
− 20 thru − 29
− 4 thru − 20
D0 thru D9
− 30 thru − 39
− 22 thru − 38
E0 thru E9
− 40 thru − 49
− 40 thru − 58
− 40 thru − 49
+ 100 thru + 109
When hand painted :
Check the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Is the fuse OK ?
Replace the fuse , and recheck .
If the fuse blows again , check for a short in the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse circuit .
Measure the voltage between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the climate control unit .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 37 and body ground .
Check for an open in the wire between the climate control unit and body ground .
Disconnect climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) .
Disconnect under-dash fuse / relay box connector X ( 39P ) .
Light Grey
Check for continuity between under-dash fuse / relay box connector X ( 39P ) terminal No . 27 and climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 4 .
Check for loose wires and poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) .
If the connections are good , substitute a known-good climate control unit and recheck .
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original climate control unit .
Repair open in the wire between the MICU and the climate control unit .
Remove the self-tapping screws , bolts , brackets ( A ) , and the climate control unit ( B ) .
Install the control unit in the reverse order of removal .
After installation , operate the various functions to see whether works properly .
Run the self-diagnostic function to confirm that there are no problems in the system .
Humidity Sensor Test
Remove the humidity / in-car temperature sensor .
Connect the humidity / in-car temperature sensor 4P connector .
Measure the voltage between the terminals with the ( + ) probe on the terminal No . 2 and the ( − ) probe on the terminal No . 3 with the connector connected .
If the voltage is not as specified , replace the humidity / in-car temperature sensor .
In-car Temperature Sensor Test
Test the humidity / in-car temperature sensor while holding it in front of the dashboard center vent .
Measure the resistance with the system set to Max Cool .
Measure the resistance with the system set to Max Hot .
Compare the resistance reading between the terminals No . 4 and No . 3 of the humidity / in-car temperature sensor with the specifications shown in the graph ; the resistance should be within the specifications .
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the humidity / in-car temperature sensor .
DOORS
Remove the driver ' s dashboard lower cover .
Remove the humidity / in-car temperature sensor ( A ) from the driver ' s dashboard lower cover ( B ) .
Be sure to connect the air hose securely .
Remove the outside air temperature sensor .
Dip the sensor in ice water , and measure the resistance .
Then pour warm water on the sensor , and check for a change in resistance .
Compare the resistance reading between the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 of the outside air temperature sensor with the specifications shown in the graph ; the resistance should be within the specifications .
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the outside air temperature sensor .
Remove the bulkhead cover .
Lift the tab ( A ) to release the lock , then remove the outside air temperature sensor ( B ) from the back of the front bumper .
Axis postioning parameters .
These safety instructions are part of the CE operating instructions of this machine .
PAVEMENT
Disconnect the 2P connector from the outside air temperature sensor .
Remove the sunlight sensor from the dashboard .
Connect the sunlight sensor 6D connector .
The voltage readings will not change under the light of a flashlight or a fluorescent lamp .
Voltage should be :
3,6 − 3,7 V or more with the sensor out of direct sunlight .
3,3 − 3,5 V or less with the sensor in direct sunlight .
If the voltage is not as specified , replace the sunlight sensor .
Remove the sunlight sensor ( A ) from the dashboard , then disconnect the 6D connector ( B ) .
Be careful not to damage the sensor and the dashboard .
See Landscaping and Exterior Works
Before testing , check for HVAC DTCs .
Disconnect the 7P connector from the driver ' s air mix control motor .
Incorrectly applying power and ground to the driver ' s air mix control motor will damage it .
Follow the instructions carefully .
Connect battery power to the terminal No . 1 of the driver ' s air mix control motor , and ground the terminal No . 2 ; the driver ' s air mix control motor should run , and stop at Max Cool .
If it doesn ' t , reverse the connections ; the driver ' s air mix control motor should run , and stop at Max Hot .
When the driver ' s air mix control motor stops running , disconnect battery power immediately .
If the driver ' s air mix control motor did not run in , remove it , then check the driver ' s air mix control linkage and door for smooth movement .
If the linkage and door move smoothly , replace the driver ' s air mix control motor .
If the linkage or door sticks or binds , repair them as needed .
PARKING
If the driver ' s air mix control motor runs smoothly , go to .
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 5 and No . 7 .
It should be between 4,2 to 7,8 k .
Reconnect the driver ' s air mix control motor 7P connector , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
Using the backprobe set , measure the voltage between the terminals No . 3 and No . 5 .
Max Cool :
about 0,5 V
Max Hot :
If either the resistance or voltage readings are not as specified , replace the driver ' s air mix control motor .
Disconnect the 7P connector from the passenger ' s air mix control motor .
Buildings - Specification - Revision 2
Incorrectly applying power and ground to the passenger ' s air mix control motor will damage it .
Connect battery power to the terminal No . 1 of the passenger ' s air mix control motor , and ground the terminal No . 2 ; the passenger ' s air mix control motor should run , and stop at Max Cool .
If it doesn ' t , reverse the connections ; the passenger ' s air mix control motor should run , and stop at Max Hot .
When the passenger ' s air mix control motor stops running , disconnect battery power immediately .
If the passenger ' s air mix control motor did not run in , remove it , then check the passenger ' s air mix control linkage and door for smooth movement .
If the linkage and door move smoothly , replace the passenger ' s air mix control motor .
If the passenger ' s air mix control motor runs smoothly , go to .
Reconnect the passenger ' s air mix control motor 7P connector , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
If either the resistance or voltage readings are not as specified , replace the passenger ' s air mix control motor .
Disconnect the 7P connector ( A ) from the driver ' s air mix control motor ( B ) .
SIGNAGE
Remove the self-tapping screws and the driver ' s air mix control motor from the heater unit .
Install the motor in the reverse order of removal .
ensure the pin on the motor is properly engaged with the linkage .
After installation , ensure the motor runs smoothly .
Disconnect the 7P connector ( A ) from the passenger ' s air mix control motor ( B ) .
Remove the self-tapping screws and the passenger ' s air mix control motor from the heater unit .
Remove the dust and pollen filter assembly ( A ) from the blower unit .
Remove the filter ( A ) from the housing ( B ) , and replace the filter .
Install the filter in the reverse order of removal .
ensure that there is no air leaking out of the blower unit .
PYLON
Disconnect the front receiver line and front suction line from the front evaporator core .
From under the hood , open the cable clamp ( A ) , then disconnect the heater valve cable ( B ) from the heater valve arm .
Turn the heater valve arm to the fully opened position as shown .
When the engine is cool , drain the engine coolant from the radiator .
Remove the clamp ( A ) .
Slide the hose clamps ( B ) back .
Remove the nut and the water valve , then disconnect the inlet heater hose ( D ) and the outlet heater hose ( E ) from the heater unit .
Engine coolant will run out when the hoses are disconnected ; drain it into a clean drip pan .
Be sure not to let coolant spill on the electrical parts or the painted surfaces .
If any coolant spills , rinse it off immediately .
Body :
Remove the mounting nuts from the heater unit .
Take care not to damage or bend the fuel lines or brake lines , etc .
Remove the dashboard .
Disconnect the connector ( A ) from the front blower motor .
Remove the wire harness clips ( B ) .
Disconnect the connector ( A ) from the adaptive front lighting control unit , then remove the harness clip ( B ) .
Disconnect the connectors ( A ) from the front mode control motor , the passenger ' s air mix control motor , the recirculation control motor , and the front power transistor .
Disconnect the connectors ( A ) from the driver ' s air mix control motor and the front evaporator temperature sensor .
Remove the wire harness clips ( B ) and the wire harness .
Turn over the carpet .
Remove the wire harness clips ( A ) , the rear heater duct mounting clips ( B ) , and the rear heater duct .
Remove the mounting nuts .
Slide the blower-heater unit ( A ) , then remove the drain hose ( B ) and blower-heater unit .
Remove the self-tapping screws and the passenger ' s heater duct ( A ) .
Remove the self-tapping screws and the expansion valve cover ( B ) .
Remove the self-tapping screw and the front heater core cover .
If any irregularities are found during these checks , refer to the Maintenance and Adjustment chapter or see your dealer for the action required to return the motorcycle to a safe operating condition .
Lubricate if dry .
Failure to perform these checks every day before you ride may result in serious damage or a severe accident .
Remove the self-tapping screws , the heater pipe brackets ( D ) , the grommets ( E ) , and carefully pull out the front heater core ( F ) .
Red legs :
Install the front heater core , and the front evaporator core in the reverse order of removal .
Install the heater unit in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Do not interchange the inlet and outlet heater hoses , and install the hose clamps securely .
Refill the cooling system with engine coolant .
Adjust the heater valve cable .
ensure that there is no coolant leakage .
Refer to the front evaporator core replacement .
From under the dash , disconnect the heater valve cable housing from the cable clamp ( A ) , and disconnect the heater valve cable ( B ) from the driver ' s air mix control linkage .
Set the temperature control dial to Max Cool ( Lo ) with the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
Attach the heater valve cable ( B ) to the driver ' s air mix control linkage as shown .
Snap the heater valve cable housing into the cable clamp ( A ) .
ensure the ring-end of the cable is pushed all the way to the base of the pin on driver ' s air mix control linkage .
From under the hood , turn the heater valve arm ( A ) to the fully closed position as shown , and hold it .
Attach the heater valve cable ( B ) to the heater valve arm , and gently pull on the heater valve cable housing to take up any slack , then install the heater valve cable housing into the cable clamp .
Disconnect the 7P connector from the front mode control motor .
Incorrectly applying power and ground to the front mode control motor will damage it .
Connect battery power to the terminal No . 1 of the front mode control motor , and ground the terminal No . 2 ; the front mode control motor should run smoothly , and stop at Vent .
If it doesn ' t , reverse the connections ; the front mode control motor should run smoothly , and stop at Defrost .
When the front mode control motor stops running , disconnect battery power immediately .
If the front mode control motor did not run in , remove it , then check the front mode control linkage and doors for smooth movement .
Application of the General Safety Instructions
Nearest paint colour for the red is RAL 3027
If the linkage and doors move smoothly , replace the front mode control motor .
If the linkage or doors stick or bind , repair them as needed .
If the front mode control motor runs smoothly , go to .
Use a digital multimeter with an output of 1 mA or less at the 20 k range .
With the front mode control motor running as in , check for continuity between the terminals No . 3 , 4 , 5 , and 6 and the terminal No . 7 individually .
There should be continuity for a moment at each terminal as the motor moves past the switch ' s terminal .
If there is no continuity for a moment at each terminal , replace the front mode control motor .
Ladder logic is applied so that one action cannot take place if previous conditions are not met .
Ladder logic means that one action cannot take place if previous conditions are not met .
Ladder logic is at the core of the system ' s design .
ENTRANCE STATEMENT
Ladder logic means that one action cannot take place if all previous conditions are not met .
The system is composed of several modules that are interdependent with each other .
The system works on the principle of a ladder logic .
the system works on a ladder logic .
Disconnect the X connector from the front mode control motor .
Remove the self-tapping screws and the front mode control motor from the heater unit .
Check the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Disconnect the rear mode control motor 7P connector .
Measure the voltage between the rear mode control motor 7P connector terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the rear mode control motor .
LOUVRES
Test the rear mode control motor .
Is the rear mode control motor OK ?
Replace the rear mode control motor , or repair the rear mode control linkage or door .
Disconnect climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) .
Check for continuity between body ground and climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminals No . 3 and No . 4 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the rear mode control motor .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and check the same terminals for voltage to body ground .
Is there any voltage ?
Repair short to power in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the rear mode control motor .
This short may also damage the climate control unit .
Powder coated or wet sprayed to match
Repair the short to power before replacing the climate control unit .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) and the rear mode control motor 7P connector .
No . 3
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) and at the rear mode control motor 7P connector .
If the connections are good , substitute a known-good climate control unit , and recheck .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the rear mode control motor .
Disconnect the 7P connector from the recirculation control motor .
Incorrectly applying power and ground to the recirculation control motor will damage it .
WORDMARK
Connect battery power to the terminal No . 1 of the recirculation control motor , and ground the terminal No . 2 ; the recirculation control motor should run smoothly , and stop at Fresh .
If it does not , reverse the connections ; the recirculation control motor should run smoothly , and stop at Recirculate .
If it doesn ' t , reverse the connections ; the recirculation control motor should run smoothly , and stop at Recirculate .
When the recirculation control motor stops running , disconnect battery power immediately .
If the recirculation control motor did not run in , remove it , then check the recirculation control linkage and door for smooth movement .
If the linkage and door move smoothly , replace the recirculation control motor .
If the linkage or door stick or bind , repair them as needed .
If the recirculation control motor runs smoothly , go to .
With the recirculation control motor running as in , check for continuity between the terminals No . 3 , 4 , and 5 and the terminal No . 7 individually .
If there is no continuity for a moment at each terminal , replace the recirculation control motor .
Illumination with red LED
Disconnect the 7P connector ( A ) from the recirculation control motor ( B ) .
Remove the self-tapping screws and the recirculation control motor from the heater unit .
Remove the harness clips ( A ) , the bolts , and the glove box frame ( B ) .
Cut the plastic cross brace in the glove box opening with diagonal cutters in the area shown , and discard it .
Remove the wire harness clips , the self-tapping screws , and the passenger ' s heater duct .
Remove the wire harness clips ( A ) , the self-tapping screws , and the passenger ' s heater duct ( B ) .
Disconnect the connectors ( A ) from the recirculation control motor and adaptive front lighting control unit , then remove the harness clip ( B ) .
Remove the self-tapping screws , the mounting nuts , and the blower unit .
Install the unit in the reverse order of removal .
Note these items when overhauling the blower unit :
DEALER NAME
The recirculation control motor ( A ) , front blower motor ( B ) and the dust and pollen filter can be replaced without removing the blower unit .
Before reassembly , ensure that the recirculation control linkage and door move smoothly without binding .
After reassembly , ensure the recirculation control motor runs smoothly .
Disconnect the 4P connector from the front power transistor .
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 3 and No . 4 of the front power transistor .
It should be about 1,5 k .
If the resistance is within the specifications , go to .
If the resistance is not within the specifications , replace the front power transistor .
Also check the front blower motor .
Front power transistor failure can be caused by a defective front blower motor .
White
Carefully release the lock tab on the terminal No . 1 ( RED ) ( A ) in the 4P connector , then remove the terminal and insulate it from body ground .
Reconnect the 4P connector to the front power transistor .
ensure the RED wire is completely isolated , then supply 12 V to the No . 1 cavity with a jumper wire .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and check that the front blower motor runs .
If the front blower motor does not run , replace the front power transistor .
A faulty front blower motor can cause the front power transistor to fail .
If the front power transistor is replaced , also check the front blower motor for binding , and replace it if necessary .
If the front blower motor runs , the front power transistor is OK .
Rear Climate Control Door Positions
Disconnect the 7P connector from the rear air mix control motor .
Illumination with white LED
Incorrectly applying power and ground to the rear air mix control motor will damage it .
Connect battery power to the terminal No . 1 of the rear air mix control motor , and ground the terminal No . 2 ; the rear air mix control motor should run , and stop at Max Hot .
If it doesn ' t , reverse the connections ; the rear air mix control motor should run , and stop at Max Cool .
When the rear air mix control motor stops running , disconnect battery power immediately .
If the rear air mix control motor did not run in , remove it , then check the rear air mix control linkage and door for smooth movement .
If the linkage and door move smoothly , replace the rear air mix control motor .
If the rear air mix control motor runs smoothly , go to .
Reconnect the rear air mix control motor 7P connector , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
If either the resistance or voltage readings are not as specified , replace the rear air mix control motor .
Disconnect the 7P connector ( A ) from the rear air mix control motor ( B ) .
OTHER ILLUMINATED SIGNS
Remove the self-tapping screws and the rear air mix control motor from the HVAC unit .
Remove the driver ' s seat .
Remove the driver ' s center console trim .
Disconnect the 4P connector from the rear power transistor .
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 3 and No . 4 of the rear power transistor .
If the resistance is not within the specifications , replace the rear power transistor .
Also check the rear blower motor .
Rear power transistor failure can be caused by a defective rear blower motor .
Carefully release the lock tab on the terminal No . 1 ( BLU ) ( A ) in the 4P connector , then remove the terminal and insulate it from body ground .
Reconnect the 4P connector to the rear power transistor .
These general safety instructions apply to individual assembly machines and complete assembly lines , produced and commissioned by “ Johann A Krause ( UK ) Ltd ” .
NON ILLUMINATED SIGNS
ensure the BLU wire is completely isolated , then supply 12 V to the No . 1 cavity with a jumper wire .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and check that the rear blower motor runs at high speed .
If the rear blower motor does not run , replace the rear power transistor .
A faulty rear blower motor can cause the rear power transistor to fail .
If the rear power transistor is replaced , also check the rear blower motor for binding , and replace it if necessary .
If the rear blower motor runs , the rear power transistor is OK .
Remove the rear evaporator temperature sensor .
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the rear evaporator temperature sensor .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the rear evaporator temperature sensor ( B ) , then remove the connector clip .
Remove the self-tapping screw and the rear evaporator temperature sensor from the rear HVAC unit .
" Sunrise Silver " with black reflective letters / red reflective arrows
Disconnect the 7P connector from the rear mode control motor .
Incorrectly applying power and ground to the rear mode control motor will damage it .
Connect battery power to the terminal No . 1 of the rear mode control motor , and ground the terminals No . 5 and No . 7 ; the rear mode control motor should run smoothly .
To avoid damaging the rear mode control motor , do not reverse power and ground .
Disconnect the terminals No . 5 or No . 7 from ground ; the rear mode control motor should stop at Vent ( when the terminal No . 5 is disconnected ) or Heat ( when the terminal No . 7 is disconnected ) .
Don ' t cycle the rear mode control motor for a long time .
If the rear mode control motor did not run in , remove it , then check the rear mode control linkage and door for smooth movement .
If the linkage and door move smoothly , replace the rear mode control motor .
Disconnect the 7P connector ( A ) from the rear mode control motor ( B ) .
Remove the rod of the rear mode control motor from the rear mode control linkage ( D ) .
. SPECIFICATION
Remove the self-tapping screws and the rear mode control motor from the rear HVAC unit .
Remove the HVAC trim .
Remove the self-tapping screws and the rear climate control panel ( A ) .
Install the control panel in the reverse order of removal .
The rear blower motor ( A ) , the rear heater core ( B ) , the rear evaporator sensor , the rear power transistor ( D ) , the rear air mix control motor ( E ) , the rear mode control motor ( F ) , and the rear expansion valve ( G ) can be replaced without removing the rear HVAC unit .
Remove the self-tapping screw and the rear evaporator sensor .
Remove the self-tapping screw and the clamp ( H ) , then remove the bolts and the rear evaporator lines ( I ) with the rear expansion valve .
If necessary , remove the rear expansion valve .
Use a second wrench to hold the other fitting on the valve so the rear evaporator lines won ' t twist .
Leave the first fitting loosely connected so you can use it to hold the valve while you loosen the second fitting .
If necessary , remove the rear blower motor , the rear heater core , the rear power transistor , the rear air mix control motor , and the rear mode control motor .
Remove the self-tapping screws , and carefully separate the left housing ( J ) from the right housing ( K ) .
Remove the rear evaporator core ( L ) and plate ( M ) .
Reassemble the unit in the reverse order of disassembly , and note these items :
Replace all O-rings with new ones at each fitting and apply a thin coat of refrigerant oil before installing them .
ensure no air is leaking from the left upper housing and the right upper housing fitting and from the upper housings and the lower housing fitting .
Install the capillary tube ( N ) directly against the outlet line , and wrap it with electrical tape ( O ) .
Before reassembly , ensure that the rear air mix control linkage and door move smoothly without binding .
Before reassembly , ensure that the rear mode control linkage and door move smoothly without binding .
After reassembly , ensure the rear air mix control motor runs smoothly .
WALLS
After reassembly , ensure the rear mode control motor runs smoothly .
Slide the hose clamps ( A ) back , then disconnect the rear inlet heater hose ( B ) and the rear outlet heater hose from the rear heater core .
Note the orientation of the hose .
Remove the bolt , then disconnect the rear suction / receiver lines ( A ) .
Remove the harness clips ( A ) .
Disconnect the connectors ( A ) from the rear mode control motor , the rear air mix control motor , rear evaporator temperature sensor , rear power transistor , and rear blower motor , then remove the harness clips ( B ) and connector clip .
Remove the mounting bolts and rear HVAC unit ( A ) .
Install the rear heater core , and the rear evaporator core in the reverse order of removal .
Install the unit in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
White Satin finish RAL 9010
If you ' re installing a new rear evaporator , add refrigerant oil ( DENSO ND-OIL 8 ) .
Immediately after using the oil , replace the cap on the container , and seal it to avoid moisture absorption .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the rear blower motor ( B ) , then remove the wire harness clips .
Remove the self-tapping screws and the rear blower motor from the rear HVAC unit .
Remove the self-tapping screws and the clamps ( A ) .
Carefully pull out the rear heater core ( B ) without bending lines .
Climate Control Unit Internal Error
Check the battery condition and the charging system .
Clear the DTC with the Polox system .
PRE FABRICATED SYSTEMS
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , and then to ON ( II ) .
Wait for 6 seconds or more .
Do the self-diagnostic function with the Polox system .
Is DTC B1202 indicated ?
The climate control unit is faulty , replace the climate control unit .
Intermittent failure , the climate control unit is OK at this time .
Climate Control Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( VSP / NE message )
DTC B1206 or DTC indicator AUTO :
Climate Control Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( ECT message )
Climate Control Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( ILLUMI message )
Walls RAL9010
If you are troubleshooting multiple DTCs , be sure to follow the instructions in the B-CAN system diagnosis test mode A .
Do the self-diagnostic function with the Polox system or climate control unit .
Check the DTCs .
Are DTCs B1205 , and / or B1206 or AUTO , and / or B1207 indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) .
Check for DTCs using the Polox system .
Are any of the following DTCs indicated ; B1011 , B1060 , B2160 , B1357 , B1805 , B1408 , or B2157 ?
Do the gauge control module input test .
Do the climate control unit troubleshooting .
DTC B1213 or DTC indicator N :
Doors RAL 7035
An Open in the Rear Evaporator Temperature Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B1213 or N indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the rear evaporator temperature sensor circuit .
Remove the rear evaporator temperature sensor , and test it .
Is the rear evaporator temperature sensor OK ?
Replace the rear evaporator temperature sensor .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 6 and the rear evaporator temperature sensor 2P connector terminal No . 2 .
Repair open in the wire between the climate control unit and the rear evaporator temperature sensor .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 8 and the rear evaporator temperature sensor 2P connector terminal No . 1 .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) , B ( 14P ) , and at the rear evaporator temperature sensor 2P connector .
Frames RAL9006 or RAL7035
DTC B1214 or DTC indicator P :
A Short in the Rear Evaporator Temperature Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B1214 or P indicated ?
Intermittent failure .
Disconnect climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and B ( 14P ) .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 6 and body ground .
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the rear evaporator temperature sensor .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 8 and climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 6 .
Repair short in the wires between the climate control unit and the rear evaporator temperature sensor .
Substitute a known-good climate control unit , and recheck .
Operating instructions and warnings are indicated on the following way :
CEILING
DTC B1215 or DTC indicator J :
An Open or Short in the Recirculation Control Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1215 or J indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the recirculation control motor circuit .
Test the recirculation control motor .
Is the recirculation control motor OK ?
Replace the recirculation control motor .
Disconnect the recirculation control motor 7P connector .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and the recirculation control motor 7P connector .
Acoustic suspended ceiling
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the recirculation control motor .
Check for continuity between body ground and climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 35 , No . 36 , and No . 38 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the recirculation control motor .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals as follows .
From terminal
To terminals
Is there continuity between any of the terminals ?
Repair the short in the wires .
Reconnect climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) .
Repair short to power in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the recirculation control motor .
White RAL 9010
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and at the recirculation control motor 7P connector .
DTC B1223 or DTC indicator M :
A Problem in the Rear Blower Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1223 or M indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the rear blower motor circuit .
Check the No . 2 ( RR BLOWER ) ( 30 A ) fuse in the under-hood fuse box , and the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
If fuse ( s ) blow again , check for a short in the No . 2 ( RR BLOWER ) ( 30 A ) and No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse ( s ) circuit .
Connect the rear blower motor 2P connector terminal No . 2 to body ground with a jumper wire .
Does the rear blower motor run at high speed ?
Disconnect the rear power transistor 4P connector .
COLUMNS IN FACADE
Check for continuity between the rear power transistor 4P connector terminal No . 2 and body ground .
Check for an open in the wire between the rear power transistor and body ground .
Connect the rear power transistor 4P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 4 with a jumper wire .
Repair open in the ORN wire between the rear power transistor and the rear blower motor .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the rear power transistor .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) and the rear power transistor 4P connector .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the rear power transistor .
Measure the voltage between body ground and climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminals No . 13 and No . 14 individually .
Repair short to power in the wire ( s ) .
Light Grey RAL 7035
Reconnect climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) .
Test the rear power transistor .
Is the rear power transistor OK ?
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) and at the rear power transistor 4P connector .
Replace the rear power transistor .
Disconnect the rear blower motor 2P connector .
Measure the voltage between the rear blower motor 2P connector terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Replace the rear blower motor .
Remove the rear blower motor relay from the dashboard wire harness , and test it .
Replace the rear blower motor relay .
IRONMONGERY / DOOR FURNITURE
Measure the voltage between the rear blower motor relay 4P socket terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 2 ( RR BLOWER ) ( 30 A ) in the under-hood fuse box and the rear blower motor relay .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the rear blower motor relay .
Check for continuity between the rear blower motor relay 4P socket terminal No . 4 and body ground .
Repair open in the GRY wire between the rear blower motor relay and the blower motor .
Check for an open in the wire between the rear blower motor relay and body ground .
DTC B1225 or DTC indicator A and AUTO :
An Open in the In-car Temperature Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B1225 or A and AUTO indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the in-car temperature sensor circuit .
Contemporary , plain / simple style – satin anodised aluminium finish
Remove the humidity / in-car temperature sensor , and test it .
Is the in-car temperature sensor OK ?
Replace the humidity / in-car temperature sensor .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 5 and the humidity / in-car temperature sensor 4P connector terminal No . 4 .
Repair open in the wire between the climate control unit and the in-car temperature sensor .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and at the humidity / in-car temperature sensor 4P connector .
DTC B1226 or DTC indicator B and AUTO :
A Short in the In-car Temperature Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B1226 or B and AUTO indicated ?
SKIRTING
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 5 and body ground .
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the in-car temperature sensor .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 5 and No . 8 .
Repair short in the wires between the climate control unit and the in-car temperature sensor .
DTC B1227 or DTC indicator C and AUTO :
An Open in the Outside Air Temperature Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B1227 or C and AUTO indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the outside air temperature sensor circuit .
Remove the outside air temperature sensor , and test it .
Is the outside air temperature sensor OK ?
Charcoal Grey RAL 7016 or black
Replace the outside air temperature sensor .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 28 and the outside air temperature sensor 2P connector terminal No . 2 .
Repair open in the wire between the climate control unit and the outside air temperature sensor .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and at the outside air temperature sensor 2P connector .
DTC B1228 or DTC indicator D and AUTO :
A Short in the Outside Air Temperature Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B1228 or D and AUTO indicated ?
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the outside air temperature sensor .
Repair short in the wires between the climate control unit and the outside air temperature sensor .
DTC B1229 or DTC indicator E and AUTO :
FLOOR SHOWROOM
An Open in the Sunlight Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B1229 or E and AUTO indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the sunlight sensor circuit .
Disconnect the sunlight sensor 6D connector .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 29 and the sunlight sensor 6D connector terminal No . 4 .
Repair open in the wire between the climate control unit and the sunlight sensor .
Reconnect the sunlight sensor 6D connector .
Two of the most common causes of throttle failure are :
An improperly serviced or clogged air cleaner may allow dirt and dust to enter the throttle body and stick the throttle open .
Test the sunlight sensor .
This sign indicates immediate hazards , which WILL lead to serious personal injury or death .
Light beige ceramic tiles
Is the sunlight sensor OK ?
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and at the sunlight sensor 6D connector .
Replace the sunlight sensor .
DTC B1230 or DTC indicator F and AUTO :
A Short in the Sunlight Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B1230 or F and AUTO indicated ?
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the sunlight sensor .
Repair short in the wires between the climate control unit and the sunlight sensor .
DTC B1231 or DTC indicator G and AUTO :
An Open in the Front Evaporator Temperature Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B1231 or G and AUTO indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the front evaporator temperature sensor circuit .
Remove the front evaporator temperature sensor , and test it .
Is the front evaporator temperature sensor OK ?
Replace the front evaporator temperature sensor .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 24 and the front evaporator temperature sensor 2P connector terminal No . 2 .
Repair open in the wire between the climate control unit and the front evaporator temperature sensor .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and at the front evaporator temperature sensor 2P connector .
DTC B1232 or DTC indicator H and AUTO :
A Short in the Front Evaporator Temperature Sensor Circuit
Ref :
Is DTC B1232 or H and AUTO indicated ?
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the front evaporator temperature sensor .
Repair short in the wires between the climate control unit and the front evaporator temperature sensor .
DTC B1233 or DTC indicator J and AUTO :
An Open in the Driver ' s Air Mix Control Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1233 or J and AUTO indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the driver ' s air mix control motor circuit .
Test the driver ' s air mix control motor .
Is the driver ' s air mix control motor OK ?
Replace the driver ' s air mix control motor .
I Borghi Il Poggio Matt or Graniti Fiandre
Disconnect the driver ' s air mix control motor 7P connector .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and the driver ' s air mix control motor 7P connector .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and at the driver ' s air mix control motor 7P connector .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the driver ' s air mix control motor .
DTC B1234 or DTC indicator K and AUTO :
A Short in the Driver ' s Air Mix Control Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1234 or K and AUTO indicated ?
Are these DTCs also present ; B1237 or N and AUTO , and / or B1245 or G , and / or B2968 or A and WINDSHIELD DEFROST , and / or B2980 or B and WINDSHIELD DEFROST ?
Check for continuity between body ground and climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 11 .
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the driver ' s air mix control motor .
Marmi – Travertino Navona ( 40 cm x 40 cm ) or
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and measure the voltage between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 11 and body ground .
Repair short to power in the wire between the climate control unit and the driver ' s air mix control motor .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , and disconnect the climate control unit .
Disconnect these items :
Driver ' s air mix control motor
Passenger ' s air mix control motor
Rear air mix control motor
Humidity / in-car temperature sensor
A / C pressure sensor
Repair short to body ground in the wire .
Stone – Limestone Beige ( 30 cm x 30 cm ) or a local approved supplier .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and check the same terminal for voltage to body ground .
Repair short to power in the wire .
This short may have also damaged the climate control unit .
Reconnect the climate control unit connector ( 40P ) .
Is there about 5 V ?
Check for a loose wire or poor connection at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) .
If the connection is good , substitute a known-good climate control unit and recheck .
While checking the same terminal for voltage to ground , reconnect these items individually and note the voltage reading each time :
Does the voltage remain at about 5 V ?
Substitute a known-good climate control unit and recheck .
Andrew Muirhead Shetland Stone
Replace the component that caused the voltage drop .
DTC B1235 or DTC indicator L and AUTO :
A Problem in the Driver ' s Air Mix Control Linkage , Door , or Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1235 or L and AUTO indicated ?
Replace the driver ' s air mix control motor , or repair the driver ' s air mix control linkage or door .
Check for continuity between body ground and climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 12 and No . 13 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the driver ' s air mix control motor .
DTC B1236 or DTC indicator M and AUTO :
An Open in the Passenger ' s Air Mix Control Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1236 or M and AUTO indicated ?
Leatherette equivalent acceptable
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the passenger ' s air mix control motor circuit .
Test the passenger ' s air mix control motor .
Is the passenger ' s air mix control motor OK ?
Replace the passenger ' s air mix control motor .
Disconnect the passenger ' s air mix control motor 7P connector .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and the passenger ' s air mix control motor 7P connector .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and at the passenger ' s air mix control motor 7P connector .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the passenger ' s air mix control motor .
DTC B1237 or DTC indicator N and AUTO :
A Short in the Passenger ' s Air Mix Control Motor Circuit
FURNITURE ALTERNATIVE
Is DTC B1237 or N and AUTO indicated ?
Are these DTCs also present ; B1234 or K and AUTO , and / or B1245 or G , and / or B2968 or A and WINDSHIELD DEFROST , and / or B2980 or B and WINDSHIELD DEFROST ?
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the passenger ' s air mix control motor .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 6 and No . 30 .
Repair short to power in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the passenger ' s air mix control motor .
DTC B1238 or DTC indicator P and AUTO :
A Problem in the Passenger ' s Air Mix Control Linkage , Door , or Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1238 or P and AUTO indicated ?
Manufacturer :
Replace the passenger ' s air mix control motor , or repair the passenger ' s air mix control linkage or door .
Check for continuity between body ground and climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 14 and No . 15 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the passenger ' s air mix control motor .
DTC B1239 or DTC indicator A :
An Open or Short in the Front Mode Control Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1239 or A indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the front mode control motor circuit .
Test the front mode control motor .
Is the front mode control motor OK ?
This sign indicates hazards or unsafe practices , which COULD lead to serious personal injury or death .
Replace the front mode control motor .
Disconnect the front mode control motor 7P connector .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and the front mode control motor 7P connector .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the front mode control motor .
Check for continuity between body ground and climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 31 , No . 32 , No . 33 , and No . 34 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the front mode control motor .
Repair short to power in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the front mode control motor .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and at the front mode control motor 7P connector .
DTC B1240 or DTC indicator B :
A Problem in the Front Mode Control Linkage , Doors , or Motor Circuit
Range :
Is DTC B1240 or B indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the mode control motor circuit .
Replace the front mode control motor , or repair the front mode control linkage or doors .
DTC B1241 or DTC indicator C :
A Problem in the Front Blower Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1241 or C indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the front blower motor circuit .
Check for continuity between the front power transistor 4P connector terminal No . 2 and body ground .
Check for an open in the wire between the front power transistor and body ground .
Connect the front power transistor 4P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 4 with a jumper wire .
Repair open in the GRN wire between the front power transistor and the front blower motor .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the front power transistor .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and the front power transistor 4P connector .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the front power transistor .
Measure the voltage between body ground and climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 9 and No . 10 individually .
Test the front power transistor .
Is the front power transistor OK ?
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and at the front power transistor 4P connector .
Replace the front power transistor .
Disconnect the front blower motor 2P connector .
Measure the voltage between the front blower motor 2P connector terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Replace the front blower motor .
Remove the front blower motor relay from the relay block , and test it .
Replace the front blower motor relay .
Measure the voltage between the front blower motor relay 4P socket terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the front blower motor relay .
Check for continuity between the front blower motor relay 4P socket terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Repair open in the WHT wire between the front blower motor relay and the blower motor .
Check for an open in the wire between the front blower motor relay and body ground .
Leatherette
DTC B1244 or DTC indicator F :
An Open in the Rear Air Mix Control Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1244 or F indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the rear air mix control motor circuit .
Test the rear air mix control motor .
Is the rear air mix control motor OK ?
Replace the rear air mix control motor .
Disconnect the rear air mix control motor 7P connector .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) , B ( 14P ) , and the rear air mix control motor 7P connector .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) , B ( 14P ) , and at the rear air mix control motor 7P connector .
FLOOR OFFICES / OTHER ADMIN AREAS
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the rear air mix control motor .
DTC B1245 or DTC indicator G :
A Short in the Rear Air Mix Control Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1245 or G indicated ?
Are these DTCs also present ; B1234 or K and AUTO , and / or B1237 or N and AUTO , and / or B2968 or A and WINDSHIELD DEFROST , and / or B2980 or B and WINDSHIELD DEFROST ?
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 5 and body ground .
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the rear air mix control motor .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and measure the voltage between climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 5 and body ground .
Repair short to power in the wire between the climate control unit and the rear air mix control motor .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , and disconnect climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) .
Carpet
DTC B1246 or DTC indicator H :
A Problem in the Rear Air Mix Control Linkage , Door , or Motor Circuit
Is DTC B1246 or H indicated ?
Replace the rear air mix control motor , or repair the rear air mix control linkage or door .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) and the rear air mix control motor 7P connector .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the rear air mix control motor .
Substitute a known-good climate control unit , and recheck .
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original climate control unit .
Climate Control Unit Lost Communication with Rear Climate Control Panel
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the rear climate control panel and climate control unit circuit .
Milliken Colour Chalk , pattern design
Disconnect the rear climate control panel 10P connector .
Measure the voltage between the rear climate control panel 10P connector terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the rear climate control panel .
Check for continuity between the rear climate control panel 10P connector terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Check for an open in the wire between the rear climate control panel and body ground .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) and the rear climate control panel 10P connector .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the rear climate control panel .
Check for continuity between body ground and climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminals No . 11 and No . 12 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the rear climate control panel .
609 or
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminals No . 11 and No . 12 .
Repair short in the wires between the climate control unit and the rear climate control panel .
Substitute a known-good rear climate control panel , and recheck .
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original rear climate control panel .
DTC B2967 or DTC indicator A and WINDSHIELD DEFROST :
An Open in the Humidity Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B2967 or A and WINDSHIELD DEFROST indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the humidity sensor circuit .
Is the humidity sensor OK ?
Disconnect the humidity / in-car temperature sensor 4P connector .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and the humidity / in-car temperature sensor 4P connector .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the humidity sensor .
A Short in the Humidity Sensor Circuit
Are these DTCs also present ; B1234 or K and AUTO , and / or B1237 or N and AUTO , and / or B1245 or G , and / or B2980 or B and WINDSHIELD DEFROST ?
Check for continuity between body ground and climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 27 .
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the humidity sensor .
Repair short to power in the wire between the climate control unit and the humidity sensor .
Climate Control Unit Lost Communication with Combination Switch Control Unit ( WIPSW message )
Intermittent failure , check for a loose wire or poor connection on the climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) .
This sign indicates important information .
Inspiration Velour " RENAULT "
Check for DTCs with the Polox system .
Are any of the following DTCs indicated ; B1958 , B1063 , or B1156 indicated ?
Do the wiper / washer switch ( combination switch control unit ) input test .
Climate Control Unit Lost Communication with Relay Control Module ( RM message )
Are any of the following DTCs indicated ; B1005 , B1959 , B2162 or B1158 indicated ?
Do the relay control module input test .
DTC B2979 or DTC indicator B and WINDSHIELD DEFROST :
An Open in the A / C Pressure Sensor Circuit
Is DTC B2979 or B and WINDSHIELD DEFROST indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the A / C pressure sensor circuit .
CARPET CUSTOMER ZONE
Disconnect the A / C pressure sensor 3P connector .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and the A / C pressure sensor 3P connector .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the A / C pressure sensor .
Measure the voltage between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 6 and No . 8 , and between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 8 and No . 26 .
Replace the A / C pressure sensor .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and at the A / C pressure sensor 3P connector .
A Short in the A / C Pressure Sensor Circuit
Are these DTCs also present ; B1234 or K and AUTO , and / or B1237 or N and AUTO , and / or B1245 or G , and / or B2968 or A and WINDSHIELD DEFROST ?
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the A / C pressure sensor .
Milliken Colour Chalk , pattern design 609
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and measure the voltage between body ground and climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 26 .
Repair short to power in the wire between the climate control unit and the A / C pressure sensor .
Reconnect climate control unit connector ( 40P ) .
Climate Control Unit Lost Communication with Navigation Unit
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the navigation unit and climate control unit circuit .
Disconnect navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the navigation unit .
FLOOR OFFICES / CUSTOMER ZONE , ALTERNATIVE
Check for continuity between body ground and navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) terminals No . 4 , No . 14 , and No . 15 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the climate control unit and the navigation unit .
Check for continuity between navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) terminals as follows .
Substitute a known-good navigation unit , and recheck .
If the symptom goes away , replace the original navigation unit .
If the symptom remains , substitute a known-good climate control unit and recheck .
If the symptom goes away , replace the original climate control unit .
DTC B2983 or DTC indicator K :
A Problem in the Recirculation Control Linkage , Door , or Motor Circuit
Is DTC B2983 or K indicated ?
Intermittent failure , check for loose wires or poor connections on the recirculation control motor circuit .
Replace the recirculation control motor , or repair the recirculation control linkage or door .
Climate Control Unit Lost Communication with Audio Unit
Disconnect audio unit connector C ( 24P ) .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 8 and audio unit connector C ( 24P ) terminal No . 24 .
Repair open in the wire between the climate control unit and the audio unit .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 8 and body ground .
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the climate control unit and the audio unit .
If the symptom / indication remains , substitute a known-good audio unit .
Range Tweed , Colour Innovation
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original audio unit .
Before troubleshooting the rear window defogger circuit , perform multiplex integrated control system troubleshooting using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Be careful not to scratch or damage the defogger wires with the tester probe .
Before testing , check the No . 30 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the No . 10 ( 30 A ) fuse in the rear fuse / relay box .
Measure the voltage between the positive terminal ( A ) and body ground with the ignition switch and defogger switch ON .
There should be battery voltage .
If there is no voltage , check for :
Faulty rear window defogger relay .
Faulty rear MICU .
Faulty climate control unit .
Floor offices / customer zone , Alternative
An open in the RED wire to the positive terminal .
If there is voltage , go to .
Disconnect the negative terminal ( B ) from the rear window defogger .
Check for continuity between the negative terminal and body ground .
If there is no continuity , check for an open in the wire or poor ground ( G701 ) .
If there is continuity , go to .
Reconnect the negative terminal to the rear window defogger .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) and the rear window defogger switch ON .
Touch the voltmeter positive probe to the each points on each defogger wire , and the negative probe to the negative terminal .
If the voltage is as specified , the defogger wire up to that point is OK .
RAPID SERVICE ( Level 2 and 3 )
If the voltage is not as specified , repair the defogger wire .
To make an effective repair , the broken section must be no longer than 1 inch ( 25 mm ) .
Lightly rub the area around the broken section ( A ) with fine steel wool , then clean it with isopropyl alcohol .
Carefully mask above and below the broken portion of the defogger wire ( B ) with cellophane tape .
Using a small brush , apply a heavy coat of silver conductive paint ( commercially available ) ( A ) extending about 1 / 8 ' ' on both sides of the break .
Allow 25 minutes to dry .
Do the function test to confirm that the wire is repaired .
Apply a second coat of paint in the same way .
Let it dry 3 hours before removing the tape .
From the BODY ELECTRICAL SYSTEM SELECTION menu , select POWER SEAT / POWER MIRROR , then DTCs .
Up to 2.5 meters
If DTCs are found , troubleshoot the DTCs using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
If no DTCs are found , go to .
Exit the DTC mode , and select DATA LIST from the POWER SEAT / POWER MIRROR TEST MODE MENU .
Test each input and monitor each output under the condition shown below :
If the data list indication is correct , continue to the next switch .
If all switches are OK , go to .
If the data list indication is not correct , do the appropriate test at the control unit and terminal indicated in the table .
Voltage drop tests should be done with the ignition switch in ON ( II ) and all connectors connected and the meter negative test lead attached to a good body ground , unless specified otherwise .
Continuity tests should be done with the ignition switch in LOCK ( 0 ) and indicated terminals disconnected .
Data List Input / Command
Ceramic tiles Antracite or
Condition :
Data List Indication
Control Unit / Terminal Number / Test ( If applicable )
Possible cause if desired result is not obtained
Door Mirror UP switch
Mirror select switch in LEFT , then RIGHT
Mirror up switch pressed :
Mirror up switch released :
Mirror select switch UP :
This sign indicates advice for the efficient , Economic and environmentally compliant use of the station .
Epoxy paint RAL 7045
Center or DOWN :
Faulty switch
An open in the wire
A short in the wire
Faulty control unit
Door Mirror Select in LEFT selection
Mirror select switch in LEFT position :
Select switch in CENTER or RIGHT position :
Mirror select switch LEFT :
Above 2.5 meters
Center or RIGHT :
Door Mirror DOWN switch
Mirror down switch pressed :
Mirror switch released :
Mirror select switch DOWN :
Center or UP :
Door Mirror Select in RIGHT selection
Mirror select switch in RIGHT position :
Select switch in CENTER or LEFT position :
White Satin finish paint RAL9010
Mirror select switch RIGHT :
Center or LEFT :
Door Mirror LEFT switch
Mirror left switch pressed :
Door Mirror RIGHT switch
Mirror right switch pressed :
Slide Switch Forward
FLOOR
Slide switch forward :
Switch released :
Power seat control unit / A1 , A7 ( GRY )
Slide Switch Backward
Slide switch backward :
Power seat control unit / A1 , A27 ( LT GRN )
Recline Switch Forward
Recline switch forward :
Power seat control unit / A1 , A6 ( LT BLU )
Recline Switch Backward
Work bays Ceramic tiles Light Grey " anti slip Profile " or
Recline switch backward :
Power seat control unit / A1 , A25 ( GRN )
Front Up-Down Switch Up
Front up-down switch up :
Power seat control unit / A1 , A5 ( ORN )
Front Up-Down Switch Down
Front up-down switch down :
Power seat control unit / A1 , A4 ( RED )
Rear Up-Down Switch Up
Rear up-down switch up :
Epoxy finish RAL 7004
Power seat control unit / A1 , A23 ( PNK )
Rear Up-Down Switch Down
Rear up-down switch down :
Power seat control unit / A1 , A3 ( WHT )
Ignition Switch for Power Seat Control
Ignition switch ON ( II ) :
Ignition switch OFF :
Power seat control unit / A35 ( YEL )
Blown No . 21 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box
A / T Gear Position Switch ( P )
Other areas Ceramic tiles Dark Grey
Transmission range switch P position :
Any other position than P :
Power seat control unit / A31 ( GRN )
Transmission range switch P :
Faulty transmission range switch
Seat MEMO Switch
Seat MEMO switch pressed :
Driver ' s MPCS unit / A31 ( ORN )
5 V more
Poor ground ( G601 )
" Ontario SFTra " or Epoxy finish RAL 7043
Driver 1 Position Switch
Driver position 1 switch pressed :
Driver ' s MPCS unit / A29 ( GRN )
Driver ' s position 1 switch pressed :
Driver ' s MPCS unit / A30 ( RED )
Column Tilt Up Switch
Steering tilt switch up :
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit / A15 ( BRN ) , A7 ( LT GRN )
Switch in TILT UP :
Battery voltage
STEEL CONSTRUCTION
Column Tilt Down Switch
Steering tilt switch down :
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit / A15 ( BRN ) , A6 ( GRN )
Switch in TILT DOWN :
Column Telescopic Extend Switch
Steering telescopic switch extend :
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit / A15 ( BRN ) , A14 ( PUR )
Switch in TELESCOPIC EXTEND :
Column Telescopic Retract Switch
Steering telescopic switch retract :
As walls and roof
Switch in TELESCOPIC RETRACT :
Ignition Switch ( IG1 )
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit / A9 ( YEL )
Slide Sensor
Seat moving forward or backward :
Seat not moving :
Power seat control unit / A11 ( WHT )
Pulses as seat moves :
2,5 V average
Faulty sensor
Design Specifications
Grey RAL 7035
Front Up-Down Sensor
Seat front moving up / down :
Power seat control unit / A12 ( RED )
Recline Sensor
Seat back moving forward or backward :
Power seat control unit / A10 ( GRN )
Rear Up-Down Sensor
Seat rear moving up / down :
Power seat control unit / A13 ( YEL )
Column Tilt Sensor Up / Down
DOOR FRAMES
Steering tilting up / down :
Steering not moving :
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit / A2 ( PNK ) to A16 ( GRN ) as steering moves :
12 V A16 ( GRN ) to A13 ( YEL ) , A5 ( LT BLU )
Pulses as steering moves :
An open in the wire ( s )
Column Telescopic Sensor Extend / Retract
Steering telescopic extend / retract :
12 V A16 ( GRN ) to A12 ( BLU ) , A4 ( ORN )
Left mirror horizontal sensor
OVERHEAD DOORS
Left mirror moves left / right :
Left mirror does not move :
ABNORMAL
Driver ' s MPCS unit / A10 ( PUR ) , A19 ( ORN )
Left mirror moving from full left to full right :
A10 ( about 0,5 V to 4,5 V ) , A19 ( more than 5 V )
Left mirror vertical sensor
Left mirror moves up / down :
Left mirror stopped :
Light Grey RAL 7035 or
Driver ' s MPCS unit / A9 ( LT BLU ) , A19 ( ORN )
A9 ( about 0,5 V to 4,5 V ) , A19 ( more than 5 V )
Right door mirror horizontal sensor
Right mirror moves left / right :
Right mirror stopped :
Front passenger ' s MPCS unit / A6 ( PNK ) , A13 ( YEL )
Right mirror moving from full left to full right :
A6 ( about 0,5 V to 4,5 V ) , A13 ( more than 5 V )
Right door mirror vertical sensor
Right mirror moves up / down :
Silver metallic RAL 9006
Front passenger ' s MPCS unit / A5 ( PUR ) , A13 ( YEL )
Right mirror moving from full left to full up :
A5 ( about 0,5 V to 4,5 V ) , A13 ( more than 5 V )
DPMS MEM switch
Driving position memory switch MEMO button pushed :
A31 ( about less than 1 V )
MEMO button released :
A31 ( more than 5 V )
DPMS POS1 switch
Driving position memory switch POS1 button pushed :
External colour RAL 9006
A29 ( about more than 1 V )
A29 ( more than 5 V )
DPMS POS2 switch
Driving position memory switch POS2 button pushed :
A30 ( about more than 1 V )
A30 ( more than 5 V )
Exit the DATA LIST and select FUNCTION TEST .
Do each of the function tests listed in the table shown .
The appropriate output should occur .
If the function operates normally , go to the next function test .
WORKSHOP
If all function tests operate normally , the system is fine .
If the function does not occur , do the appropriate test at the control unit and terminal indicated in the table .
Voltage drop tests should be done with the ignition switch in ON ( II ) and all connectors connected .
Jumper tests should be done according to the instructions indicated .
If the test indicates that the component operates normally , but the function will not operate by doing the function test or the normal use of the component , the control unit that operates that function must be faulty ; replace it .
If the test indicates that the component does not operate normally , check for an open or short in the harnesses between the component and the control unit .
If the harness is OK , replace the component .
Function Test
Component and Operation
Power Seat :
Up to 1.2 meters ceramic tiles Antracite
Slide Motor-Full Forward
Seat slides forward
Power seat control unit / B8 ( ORN ) , A9 ( BLK ) , B7 ( GRY ) , B17 ( BLU )
Disconnect power seat control unit connectors A and Connect B8 to B17 and B7 to A9 ; driver ' s seat should slide forward .
Faulty motor
Slide Motor-Full Backward
Seat slides backward
Disconnect power seat control unit connectors A and Connect B8 to B7 and B17 to A9 ; driver ' s seat should slide backward .
Front UP-DOWN Motor-Full Up
or Dark Grey paint RAL 7045
Front of seat moves up
Power seat control unit / B8 ( ORN ) , A9 ( BLK ) , B6 ( BRN ) , B16 ( PUR )
Disconnect power seat control unit connectors A and Connect B8 to B16 and B6 to A9 ; front of driver ' s seat should move up .
Front UP-DOWN Motor-Full Down
Front of seat moves down
Disconnect power seat control unit connectors A and Connect B8 to B6 and B16 to A9 ; front of driver ' s seat should move down .
Rear Up-Down Motor-Full Up
Rear of seat moves up
Power seat control unit / B1 ( LT BLU ) , A9 ( BLK ) , B2 ( GRN ) , B10 ( PNK )
Disconnect power seat control unit connectors A and Connect B1 to B2 and B10 to A9 ; rear of driver ' s seat should move up .
Above 1.2 meter paint white satin finish
Rear Up-Down Motor-Full Down
Rear of seat moves down
Disconnect power seat control unit connectors A and Connect B1 to B10 and B2 to A9 ; rear of driver ' s seat should move down .
Recline Motor-Full Forward
Seat back moves forward
Power seat control unit / B1 ( LT BLU ) , A9 ( BLK ) , B9 ( YEL ) , B11 ( LT GRN )
Disconnect power seat control unit connectors A and Connect B1 to B11 and B9 to A9 ; driver ' s seat back should move forward .
Recline Motor-Full Backward
Seat back moves backward
Disconnect power seat control unit connectors A and Connect B1 to B9 and B11 to A9 ; driver ' s seat back should move backward .
This machine was built according to the general recognised technical standards - at the time of design start - and in accordance with the CE sign .
Ceramic tiles Light Grey or
Column Tilt Up
Power tilt / telescopic steering tilts up
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit / B1 ( BLK ) , B3 ( WHT ) , B7 ( ORN ) , B8 ( LT BLU )
Disconnect tilt / telescopic steering control unit connectors A and Connect B3 to B7 and B1 to B8 ; steering tilts up .
Column Tilt Down
Power tilt / telescopic steering tilts down
Disconnect tilt / telescopic steering control unit connectors A and Connect B3 to B8 and B1 to B7 ; steering tilts down .
Column Telescopic Extend
Power tilt / telescopic steering telescopic extend
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit / B1 ( BLK ) , B3 ( WHT ) , B6 ( PNK ) , B4 ( LT GRN )
STEEL CONSTRUCTIONS
Disconnect tilt / telescopic steering control unit connectors A and Connect B3 to B4 and B1 to B6 ; steering telescopic extend .
Column Telescopic Retract
Power tilt / telescopic steering telescopic retract
Disconnect tilt / telescopic steering control unit connectors A and Connect B3 to B6 and B1 to B4 ; steering telescopic retract .
Remove the driver ' s door panel .
Disconnect the 10P connector ( A ) from the driving position memory switch ( B ) .
Remove the two screws , then remove the switch from the door panel .
Check for continuity between the terminals in each switch position according to the table .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the switch .
Before testing the power mirror circuit unit , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
As walls and ceiling
Remove the left side kick panel .
Disconnect under-dash fuse / relay box connector P ( 30P ) .
Inspect the connector and socket terminals to be sure they are all making good contact .
If the terminals are bent , loose or corroded , repair them as necessary , and recheck the system .
If the terminals look OK , go to .
Reconnect the connector to the under-dash fuse / relay box .
If any test indicates a problem , find and correct the cause , then recheck the system .
If all the input tests prove OK , go to .
Wire
Dark Grey RAL 7035
Test condition
Test :
Desired result
Power mirror switch in UP
Measure the voltage to ground :
There should be less than 1 V .
Faulty power mirror switch
Power mirror switch released
There should be more than 5 V .
A short to ground in the wire
CEILING / ROOF
Power mirror switch in DOWN
Power mirror switch in LEFT
Power mirror switch in RIGHT
Power mirror switch in L position
Power mirror switch in R position
Driver ' s MPCS Unit
Disconnect driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) .
If the terminals are bent , loose or corroded , repair them as necessary and recheck the system .
With the connector still disconnected , do these input tests at the following connector .
EQUIPMENT
Under all conditions
There should be battery voltage .
Blown No . 4 ( 40 A ) fuse in the main under-hood fuse box
Check for continuity between the A8 terminal and front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 4 :
There should be continuity .
Faulty under-dash fuse / relay box
To local regulation colours or Light / Dark Grey
Connect the A7 and A16 terminals , and A5 and A38 terminals :
The left power mirror move UP .
Faulty left power mirror actuator
Connect the A7 and A17 terminals , and A5 and A38 terminals :
The left power mirror swings LEFT .
Reconnect the connector to the driver ' s MPCS unit .
Front Passenger ' s MPCS Unit
Remove the front passenger ' s door panel .
PARTS WAREHOUSE
Disconnect the front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 28P ) .
Check for continuity between the A4 terminal and driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 8 :
Connect the A2 and A10 terminals , and A7 and A25 terminals :
The right power mirror move UP .
Faulty right power mirror actuator
Connect the A2 and A11 terminals , and A7 and A25 terminals :
BASE BOARDS
The left power mirror swings RIGHT .
Reconnect the connector to the front passenger ' s MPCS unit .
If multiple failures are found on the more than one control unit , replace the under-dash fuse / relay box ( includes the MICU ) .
If input failures are related to a particular control unit , replace the control unit .
Before testing the power seat control unit , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Be careful not to scratch the interior trim .
Disconnect the 40P connector ( A ) and 18P connector ( B ) from the power seat control unit .
With the connectors still disconnected , do the input test at the following connectors .
Reconnect the connectors to the power seat control unit , and do these input tests at the following connectors .
RACKING FRAMES
If all the input tests prove OK , the control unit must be faulty ; replace it .
Ignition switch ON ( II )
Blown No . 2 ( OP2 ) ( 40 A ) fuse in the main under-hood fuse box
Shift lever in P position
Shift lever out of P position
There should be about 10 V .
The manufacturer does not recommend joining more then 2 consFTtive metres of pipe length to the T junction .
Bearing Ladder Z Axis Positions .
Safety plan
RACKING BOARDS
Slide motor , Front up-down motor , Rear up-down motor
Disconnect the 2P connector from each power seat motor .
All connectors are terminal side of male terminals .
Test each motor by connecting power and ground according to the table .
When the motor stops running , disconnect battery power immediately .
If the motor does not run or fails to run smoothly , replace the seat linkage assembly .
The slide and up-down motors are not available separately because of the part of seat linkage , refer to the seat linkage disassembly / reassembly .
Recline motor
Disconnect the power seat wire harness 8P connector from the recline motor / lumbar support motor subharness .
Test motor by connecting power and ground according to the table .
Standard manufacturer colour
If the motor does not run or fails to run smoothly , check for an open in the wire between the 8P connector and recline motor .
If the harness is OK , replace the recline motor .
Remove the power seat adjustment switch knobs ( A ) and recline cover from the driver ' s power seat , then remove the two screws and the power seat adjustment switch ( B ) .
Disconnect the 12P connector from the power seat adjustment switch .
Reinstall the adjustment switch knobs to the switch .
Remove the steering column covers .
Disconnect the 6P connector and 8P connector from the power tilt / telescopic steering motors .
Check each motor by connecting power and ground according to the table .
TILT MOTOR :
TELESCOPIC MOTOR :
TOI LETS
If the motor does not run or fails to run smoothly ; replace the steering column assembly .
Before testing the power till / telescopic steering control unit , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Remove the steering column cover .
Disconnect the 16P connector ( A ) and 8P connector ( B ) from the power tilt / telescopic steering control unit .
Reconnect the connectors to the power tilt / telescopic steering control unit , and do these input tests at the following connectors .
Poor ground ( G503 , G506 )
No . 4 ( 40 A ) fuse in the main under-hood fuse box
Blown No . 3 ( P / W ) ( 50 A ) fuse in the main under-hood fuse box
Disconnect the 13P connector ( A ) from the power tilt / telescopic steering switch ( B ) .
Ceramic tiles White
Troubleshooting CAN Circuit Related Problems
Check the powertrain control module ( PCM ) for DTCs and troubleshoot PCM or F-CAN loss of communication errors first .
Using the Polox system ( Preferred method )
Go to B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A to check for Connected units ' ' and DTCs .
If no DTCs are retrieved , go to B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode C or D .
Without DS ( Use only if the Polox system is unavailable )
Check for communication circuit problems using B-CAN System Diagnostic Test .
Sort , and then troubleshoot the DTCs in this order :
Battery voltage DTCs
FLOORS
Internal error DTCs
Loss of communication DTCs ( beginning with the lowest number first ; for example , if B1008 and B1011 are retrieved , troubleshoot B1008 first ) .
Refer to loss of communication cross reference chart .
Signal error DTCs
If no DTCs are retrieved , use B-CAN System Diagnostic Test Mode 2 to check all inputs related to the failure .
How to display DTCs on the gauge control module
Set the multiplex in Test Mode 1 .
While in Test Mode 1 , the DTCs which have been detected and stored individually by various B-CAN units , will be shown one by one on the multi-information display on the gauge control module when the communication between the MICU and the gauge control module is normal .
To scroll through the DTCs , press the select / reset button .
The unit that has stored the code can be identified by the number shown on the multi-information display ( MID ) .
Ceramic tiles Antracite Grey
Unit
Code ( Control Unit I . D . Number )
Relay control module
Rear MICU
Power tailgate control unit
Driver ' s MPCS unit
Climate control unit
Combination switch control unit
HandsFreeLink control unit
Power seat control unit
SANITARY EQUIPMENT
Immobilizer-keyless control unit
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver )
How to clear the DTC
While in DTC indication status , press and hold down the select / reset button for more than 10 seconds .
Loss of Communication DTC cross-reference chart
When an electronic control unit ( FT ) is unable to communicate with the other FTs on the CAN circuit , the other control units will set loss of communication DTCs .
Use this chart to find the control unit that is not communicating .
Find the Transmitting Control Unit that is in the same row as all of the loss of communication DTCs retrieved .
Do the input test for the transmitting control unit .
BUS OFF and Internal Error Codes
CANTEEN
DTC type
Related Unit
Relay Control Module
Combination Switch Control Unit
Gauge Control Module
Climate Control Unit
Immobilizer-Keyless Control unit
Power Tailgate Control Unit
Power Seat Control Unit
Hands FreeLink Control Unit
AcuraLink Control Unit ( XM Receiver )
FT ( CPU ) Error
FT ( EEPROM ) Error
Transmitting Control Unit
Message
Receiving Unit / Loss of Communication DTC
Gauge Control Unit
Immobilizer-Keyless Control Unit
Navigation Unit
OTHERS
ALARM
Before starting a machine , the whole area is to be integrated into the company safety plan .
ILLUMINATION WORKSHOP / PARTS
Fluorescent colour 84
VSA Modulator-Control Unit
TPMS Control Unit
SRS Control
Active Damper Control Unit
AcuraLink Control Unit
HandsFreeLink Control Unit
Audio Unit
SWITCH EQUIPMENT
MICU Control Functions
The MICU ( built into the under-dash fuse / relay box ) is one of the B-CAN system components .
The MICU controls many systems related to the body controller area network and security system , and also works as a gateway to diagnose the other B-CAN connected FTs with the Polox system .
The MICU also controls the function of these circuits :
Refer to each system circuit diagram for details .
Entry lights control ( individual map lights and ceiling light )
Exterior lights control ( including the daytime running lights control and back-up lights )
Interlock system
Keyless entry
Power door locks
RADIATORS
SFTrity alarm
Turn signal / hazard warning lights
Tailgate actuator
Automatic lighting
Impact sensing door lock release
Door mirror switch
Body Controller Area Network ( B-CAN ) and Fast Controller Area Network ( F-CAN )
The body controller area network ( B-CAN ) and the fast controller area network ( F-CAN ) share information between multiple electronic control units ( FTs ) .
B-CAN communication moves at a slower speed ( 33,33 kbps ) for convenience related items and for other functions .
THE SITE
F-CAN information moves at a faster speed ( 500 kbps ) for real time ' ' functions such as fuel and emissions data .
To allow both systems to share information , the gauge control module translates information from B-CAN to F-CAN and from F-CAN to B-CAN .
The single wire method is used between the units not requiring the communication to move at a fast speed .
Using a single wire method reduces the number of the wires used on the body controller area network .
Gateway Function
The gauge control module acts as a gateway to allow both systems to share information , the gauge control module translates information from B-CAN to F-CAN and from F-CAN to B-CAN .
Network Loss of Communication ' ' Error Checking Function
The FTs on the CAN circuit send messages to each other .
If there are any communication malfunctions on the network , the odo / trip display on the gauge control module can indicate the error messages by entering the gauge self-diagnostic function .
There are three types of messages as follows :
Serma is moving to a Premium image which will appeal particularly to our target customers .
Error Code List
Error code
Type of communication line ( s ) error
F-CAN communication
B-CAN communication
F-CAN and B-CAN communication
Self-diagnostic Function
By connecting the Polox system to the data link connector ( XTF ) , the Polox system can retrieve the diagnostic results from the MICU via a diagnostic BUS called the K-LINE .
The K-LINE is different from the CAN line , but it is connected to the CAN related FTs .
It is an image that is in line with the styling of our products and with the focus of our marketing .
The MICU is a gateway between the Polox system and B-CAN related FTs , and sends B-CAN diagnostic results to the Polox system .
When performing a function test with the Polox system , the Polox system sends an output signal through the K-LINE to the MICU .
The MICU either relays the request to another FT , or commands the function itself .
Wake-up and Sleep Function
The multiplex integrated control system has wake-up ' ' and sleep ' ' functions to decrease parasitic draw on the battery when the ignition switch is in LOCK ( 0 ) position .
In the sleep mode , the MICU stops functioning ( communication and CPU control ) when it is not necessary for the system to operate .
As soon as any operation is requested ( for example , a door is unlocked ) , the related control unit in the sleep mode immediately wakes up and begins to function .
When the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) , and the driver ' s door is opened , then closed , there is a delay about 40 seconds before the control unit goes from the wake-up mode to the sleep mode .
The Sleep mode will not function if any door is opened or if the ignition switch is turned ON ( II ) .
The draw is reduced from 2,6 A to less than 35 mA when in the Sleep mode .
Therefore it is important that the dealership confirms and reinforces this style .
Sleep and Wake-up Mode Test .
Fail-safe Function
To prevent improper operation , the MICU has a fail-safe function .
In the fail-safe mode , the output signal is fixed when any part of the system malfunctions ( for example , a faulty control unit or communication line ) .
Each control unit has a hardware fail-safe function that fixes the output signal when there is a CPU malfunction , and a software fail-safe function that ignores the signal from a malfunctioning control unit , which allows the system to operate normally .
Hardware Fail-safe Control
Fail-safe function
When a CPU problem or a abnormal power supply voltage is detected , the MICU moves to the hardware fail-safe mode , and each system output load is set to the pre-programmed fail-safe value .
Software Fail-safe Control
When any of the data from the B-CAN circuit cannot be received within a specified time , or an unusual combination of the data is recognized , the MICU moves to the software fail-safe mode .
The appearance of all the dealership must support our image in Africa and Latin America .
The data that cannot be received is forced to a pre-programmed value .
Power Supply Voltage Monitoring Function
The MICU monitors the power supply voltage ( back-up voltage ) .
If the voltage goes below 10 V , the MICU sends an MICU will not store a DTC .
Input
Output
MICU message
Entry Lights Control System ( Ceiling Lights , Ignition Key Light )
The MICU control of the ceiling light and ignition key light ON / OFF is based on input signals from each switch .
IG1 power supply
It is a broad balanced image that is aimed to appeal to our customers ’ rational and emotional values .
Ignition key switch
Driver ' s door switch
Front passenger ' s door switch
Left rear door switch
Right rear door switch
Interior lights
Ignition key light
Driver ' s door lock knob switch ( LOCK )
Keyless LOCK / UNLOCK signal
Tailgate latch switch
This applies particularly with regard to action in case of :
It reflects their lifestyles and their aspirations , supporting and confirming their decision to choose us .
Back-up Lights
The MICU control of the back-up lights is based on ignition switch ( IG1 ) and the transmission range switch ( R ) signals .
Turn the ignition switch to ON .
Transmission range switch ( R )
Back-up lights
Turn Signal / Hazard Warning Lights
The MICU control of the turn signal / hazard warning lights is based on input signals from the turn signal switch and the hazard warning switch .
Hazard warning switch
Turn signal lights ( left )
Turn signal lights ( right )
The appearance of the whole dealership must support our image in Europe and in Asia .
Turn signal switch ( left )
Turn signal switch ( right )
Collision Detection Signal ( CDS )
The MICU control of the door lock actuators is based on IG1 and the SRS signals .
Door lock actuators ( LOCK / UNLOCK )
Tailgate release actuator ( UNLOCK )
Front impact sensor
Side impact sensor ( first )
Side impact sensor ( second )
Polox unit rollover signal
In all instances the dealer should consult the distributor regarding the optimum location for a new dealership .
Automatic Lighting System
The MICU control of the automatic lighting system is based on IG1 , IG2 , automatic lighting sensor signals , and B-CAN signals .
Ignition switch ( IG1 )
Ignition switch ( IG2 )
Automatic lighting sensor signal
Headlight back-up signal
Headlight switch ( AUTO )
Vehicle speed pulse signal
Engine speed signal
AUTO LT messages
The size and facilities of the dealership must ensure a comprehensive , satisfactory level of service can be provided in line with our standards .
Headlight Washer Operation
The MICU control of the headlight washer system is based on headlight switch and washer switch signals .
Windshield washer switch
Headlight washer messages
Key Interlock
Ignition switch
Transmission range switch ( P )
Park-pin switch
Key interlock solenoid
Power Door Locks ( Unlock all doors and tailgate simultaneously )
This must then be related to the market potential of the area .
The MICU control of the door lock actuators is based on input signals of each switch .
Door lock actuators ( LOCK )
Door lock actuators ( UNLOCK )
Driver ' s door lock switch ( LOCK / UNLOCK )
Driver ' s door key cylinder switch ( LOCK / UNLOCK )
Front passenger ' s door lock switch ( LOCK / UNLOCK )
Power Door Locks ( Unlock only the driver ' s door first )
Driver ' s door lock actuator ( UNLOCK )
Driver ' s door key cylinder switch ( UNLOCK )
Door Lock Response Operation
Many distributors employ sophisticated geographical information systems which identify locations with the greatest potential , and will not clash with other dealers areas of responsibility ( DAR ’ s ) .
The MICU control of the door lock actuators is based on B-CAN signals .
Door lock signal
Keyless Entry System ( Unlock all doors and tailgate at the same time )
The MICU control of the door lock actuators is based on input signals of each switch and the B-CAN signals .
Relock message
Keyless Entry System ( Unlock only the driver ' s door first )
Answer Back Response Operation
The MICU control of the turn signal lights is based on B-CAN signals .
Answer back signal ( buzzer )
Answer back signal ( hazard )
However a considerable time should be allocated to visiting the potential site and the surrounding district , at different times ( rush hours , evenings etc . ) and on different days .
Auto Power Door Locks ( LOCK operation )
Transmission range switch ( P position )
Driver ' s door lock knob switch ( UNLOCK )
Front passenger ' s door lock knob switch ( UNLOCK )
Left rear door lock knob switch ( UNLOCK )
Right rear door lock knob switch ( UNLOCK )
Relay control module ( Hood switch )
MICU ( SET 1 ) message
Auto Power Door Locks ( UNLOCK operation )
Tailgate Outer Handle Switch Operation ( Unlock all doors and tailgate simultaneously )
Points to consider include :
The MICU control of the tailgate release actuator is based on tailgate outer handle switch and the B-CAN signals .
Driver ' s door lock knob switch ( LOCK / UNLOCK )
Tailgate outer handle switch
Tailgate Outer Handle Switch Operation ( Unlock only the driver ' s door first )
SFTrity Alarm System
The MICU control of the lighting system and horn is based on input signals of each switch and the B-CAN signals .
Audio switch
Inclining sensor
ALARM ( ACTION ) message
ALARM ( HORN ) message
Market potential of the area .
ALARM ( H / L LOW ) message
ALARM ( SMALL LT ) message
ALARM ( CYCLE ) message
ANSWER BACK ( SMALL LT ) message
ANSWER BACK ( BUZZER ) message
Prevention of Key Locked Inside Vehicle
Polox system Inputs and Commands
Certain inputs happen so quickly that the Polox system can not update fast enough .
Hold the switch that is being tested while monitoring the Data List .
This should give the Polox system time to update the signal on the Data List .
Passing vehicle traffic .
Because the Polox system software is updated to support the release for newer vehicles it is not uncommon to see system function tests that are not supported .
ensure that the most current software is loaded .
Input :
System Menu
Data List
Gauge
The auto control of the key interlock solenoid is based on ignition switch signal , the transmission range switch signal , and the park-pin switch signal .
Cruise Control Set Switch
Fire
Passing pedestrian traffic .
Cruise Control Resume Switch
Washer Fluid Level Switch
VSA / TCS Off Switch
Parking Brake Switch
Illumination Plus Switch
Illumination Minus Switch
Select / Reset Switch
INFO Previous Switch
INFO Next Switch
Fuel Sending Unit Input 1
Cost of site .
deg
VSA / TCS Active Indicator
VSA / TCS Indicator ( Warning )
ABS Indicator
EBD Indicator ( Electronic Brake Distribution )
Cruise Control Main Switch Indicator
MIL Indicator
Washer Fluid Level Indicator ( Canada )
DRL Indicator
Low Oil Pressure Indicator
Size and orientation of the site .
Charging System Indicator
Cruise Control Main Switch ON Indicator
Maintenance Minder Indicator
High Beam Indicator
Parking Light ON Indicator
Low Fuel Warning Indicator
SFTrity Indicator
Fog Light Indicator
Master Warning Indicator
Seatbelt Indicator
Access onto the site .
Low Tire Pressure Indicator
TPMS Indicator
Power Tailgate Indicator
SH-AWD Indicator
Door Open Indicator
Differential Oil Temp Indicator
Maintenance Minder Change Oil Indicator
Fuel Fill Cap Caution
A / T Indicator
SRS Indicator
General environment and surroundings .
Side Airbag Cutoff Indicator
Outside Temperature Indicator
Radiator Fan Indicator
Starter Relay Indicator
A / T Gear Position Switch ( R )
Lighting
Headlight Switch ( OFF )
Headlight Switch ( PARKING )
Headlight Switch ( HEADLIGHT )
Planning and local restrictions .
Headlight Switch ( AUTO )
Headlight Switch ( High Beam )
Headlight Switch ( PASSING )
Turn Signal Switch ( LEFT )
Turn Signal Switch ( RIGHT )
Fog Light Switch
Driver ' s Door Switch
Ignition Key Cylinder Light Command
Interior Light Command
Left Turn Signal Command
Space for expansion .
Right Turn Signal Command
Autolight Small Command
Autolight Headlight Command
Autolight Warning Command
Autolight Headlight Backup line Command
Headlight Switch ( BACK-UP )
Headlight Command
Headlight High Beam Command
Parking Light Command
Fog Light Command
In most circumstances there will be a balance between cost and the desired requirements , however a new dealership is a long term investment and it is essential that the location has the potential to allow the dealership to grow and expand .
DRL Command
Interior Small Light Command
Inner Taillight Command
Rear Fog Light Command
Doors
Driver ' s Door Lock Switch Illumination Command
Driver ' s Door Courtesy Light Command
Front Passenger ' s Door Courtesy Light Command
Front Passenger ' s Door Lock Switch Illumination Command
Front Passenger ' s Door Switch
BUILDINGFORM AND DEALERSHIP LAYOUT
Driver ' s Rear Door Switch
Passenger ' s Rear Door Switch
Door LOCK Command
Door UNLOCK Command
Driver ' s Door UNLOCK Command
Tailgate Switch
Tailgate Knob Switch ( UNLOCK )
Fuel Fill Door Command
Driver ' s Key Cylinder Switch ( LOCK )
Driver ' s Key Cylinder Switch ( UNLOCK )
STYLE AND FEATURES OF THE BUILDING
Driver ' s Door Lock Switch ( LOCK )
Driver ' s Door Lock Switch ( UNLOCK )
Driver ' s Door Lock Knob Switch ( LOCK )
Driver ' s Door Lock Knob Switch ( UNLOCK )
Front Passenger ' s Door Switch ( LOCK )
Front Passenger ' s Door Switch ( UNLOCK )
Front Passenger ' s Door Knob Switch ( UNLOCK )
Left Rear Door Knob Switch ( UNLOCK )
Right Rear Door Knob Switch ( UNLOCK )
Keyless
Explosions
Whilst the building may be distinctive and original this is secondary to displaying the cars and supporting our image in the form of the new external signage .
Trunk Lid Release Command
Keyless Buzzer Command
Power windows
Power Window Main Switch
Power Window Master , Driver ' s AUTO Switch
Power Window Master , Driver ' s UP Switch
Power Window Master , Driver ' s DOWN Switch
Power Window Master , Front Passenger ' s UP Switch
Power Window Master , Front Passenger ' s DOWN Switch
Power Window Master , Left Rear UP Switch
Architects should be discouraged from adding their ‘ signature ’ to the building in respect of form or style .
Power Window Master , Left Rear DOWN Switch
Power Window Master , Right Rear UP Switch
Power Window Master , Right Rear DOWN Switch
Power Window Master , Passenger ' s AUTO Switch
Front Passenger ' s Window Switch ( UP )
Front Passenger ' s Window Switch ( DOWN )
Front Passenger ' s Window Switch ( AUTO )
Driver ' s Window Motor A-phase Pulse Signal
NONE / DETECT
Driver ' s Window Motor B-phase Pulse Signal
Good design supports and works for the client – it does not dominate .
Front Passenger ' s Window Motor A-phase Pulse Signal
Front Passenger ' s Window Motor B-phase Pulse Signal
Driver ' s Window Motor Command
OFF / UP / DOWN
Front Passenger ' s Window Motor Command
Power Seat / Power Mirror
Power Mirror UP Switch
Power Mirror MOVE LEFT Switch
Power Mirror DOWN Switch
Power Mirror MOVE RIGHT Switch
The building should be simple , hi-tech , contemporary and generally have a horizontal format , and ground hugging stance .
Power Mirror LEFT Switch
Power Mirror RIGHT Switch
Column Tilt UP Switch
Column Tilt DOWN Switch
Column Telescopic Pull Switch
Column Telescopic Push Switch
Column Auto Switch
Ignition Switch ( ETS )
Front UP-DOWN Sensor
Rear UP-DOWN Sensor
Curved facades must be avoided .
Column Tilt Sensor
Column Telescopic Sensor
Slide Motor Command
OFF / FWD / RWD
Recline Motor Command
Front Height Motor Command
Rear Height Motor Command
Power Seat Buzzer Command
Headrest Motor
Column Tilt Motor
Roof features which detract from or overpower the signage should be rejected as should unusual features which disrupt the simplicity and horizontal nature of the elevations .
Column Telescopic Motor
DPMS MEM Switch
DPMS POS1 Switch
DPMS POS2 Switch
Left Power Mirror Horizontal Sensor
NORMAL / ABNORMAL
Left Power Mirror Vertical Sensor
Right Power Mirror Horizontal Sensor
Right Power Mirror Vertical Sensor
Left Power Mirror UP-DOWN Motor Command
Buildings - Site , Building Form and Interior Space Planning -
Left Power Mirror LEFT-RIGHT Motor Command
OFF / LEFT / RIGHT
Right Power Mirror UP-DOWN Motor Command
Right Power Mirror LEFT-RIGHT Motor Command
Memory Switch Position 1 Indicator Command
Memory Switch Illumination Command
Wipers
Windshield Wiper Switch ( LOW )
Windshield Wiper Switch ( HIGH )
Windshield Wiper Switch ( MIST )
Rear Wiper Switch
Windshield Washer Switch
Rear Washer Switch
Intermittent Wiper Dwell Timer
Brake Pedal Position Switch
Windshield Wiper Motor PARK Switch
Windshield Wiper Switch ( BACK-UP )
Windshield Wiper Motor HI Command
Windshield Wiper Motor LO Command
Windshield Washer Motor Command
The layout of a good Dealership should be based on the concepts of presenting our products to their best advantage and customer satisfaction .
Rear Window Washer Motor Command
Rear Window Wiper Switch
Rear Window Wiper Command
SFTrity
Ignition Key Cylinder Switch
Radio Switch
Tailgate Release Command
Hood Switch
Horn Command
SFTrity Hazard Signal Command
It is only after the concepts have been understood , that the other important issues of efficiency , and the practical constraints of the sites , may be considered .
Power Tailgate
Power Tailgate Switch
Power Tailgate Outer Handle Switch
Power Tailgate Inner Switch
A / T Shift Position Switch ( P )
Latch Gear Position Switch ( Neutral )
Latch Gear Position Switch ( Release )
Full Latch Switch
Ratchet Switch
Half Latch Switch
Disasters ( e . g . earthquakes )
The layout of the dealership must be developed based on achieving the concepts of branding , customer care and presentation of our products , which have led to such applications as :
Power Tailgate Drive Motor Pulse A
Power Tailgate Drive Motor Pulse B
Right Power Tailgate Upper Pinch Sensor
Left Power Tailgate Upper Pinch Sensor
Power Tailgate Motor Command
OFF / OPEN / CLOSE
Power Tailgate Clutch Command
Closer Motor Command
OFF / RELEASE / CLOSE
Power Tailgate Buzzer
Single Entrance .
Output :
Operation Time
Speedometer displays value inputted
Tachometer displays value inputted
Fuel gauge displays value inputted
Fuel Level Gauge
Temperature gauge displays value inputted
Engine Temperature Gauge
Turns VSA activation indicator on / off
VSA / TCS Activation Indicator
Combined central reception .
Illuminates for 10 sec .
Turns VSA indicator on / off
VSA / TCS Indicator
Turns ABS indicator on / off
Turns EBD indicator on / off
EBD Indicator ( Electronic Brake Display )
Turns cruise indicator on / off
Cruise Activation Indicator
Turns MIL on / off
MIL Status
Transparency and openness .
Turns DRL indicator on / off
Daytime Running Light indicator ( Canada )
Turns low oil pressure indicator on / off
Engine Oil Pressure Indicator
Turns charging system indicator on / off
Turns cruise main indicator on / off
Turns maintenance required indicator on / off
Maintenance Required Indicator
Turns high beam indicator on / off
Turns light-on indicator on / off
Choice and flexibility .
Light On Indicator
Turns low fuel indicator on / off
Low Fuel Level Indicator
Turns security indicator on / off
Display inputted value
Trip Meter
Turns A / T P position indicator on / off
A / T Gear Position Indicator ( P )
Turns A / T R position indicator on / off
A / T Gear Position Indicator ( R )
Comfort .
Turns A / T N position indicator on / off
A / T Gear Position Indicator ( N )
Turns A / T D position indicator on / off
A / T Gear Position Indicator ( D )
Turns A / T D3 position indicator on / off
A / T Gear Position Indicator ( D3 )
Turns A / T 2 position indicator on / off
A / T Gear Position Indicator ( 2 )
Controls gauge illumination brightness to inputted value
Illumination Brightness Control
DEALERSHIP VISIBILITY
Turns key-in beeper on / off
Key Alarm Chime
Sounds alarm for 10 sec .
Turns light-on beeper on / off
Headlight Alarm Chime
Turns seat belt reminder beeper on / off
Seat belt Reminder Chime
Turns ignition key cylinder light on / off
Turns interior light on / off
Turns left turn signal lights on / off
Many factors will effect the location of the dealership including convenience of access , competitor ’ s locations , demographic and economic considerations .
Blinks for 5 sec .
Turns right turn signal lights on / off
Turns headlight on / off
Operates for 15 sec .
Turns headlight high beam on / off
Turns parking lights on / off
Turns front fog lights on / off
Front Fog Light
Turns daytime running lights on / off
Daytime Running Light Signal ( Canada )
However in principal the dealership should be situated in a location with high exposure so that the maximum amount of people may be aware of the existence of a our dealership .
Turns automatic headlights on / off
Automatic Lighting Headlight
Turns cargo area lights on / off
Cargo Area Light
Power window
Runs driver ' s window up
Driver ' s Window Up
Drives for 3 sec .
Runs driver ' s window down
Driver ' s Window Down
The showroom should be visible from the main traffic routes and there must be a clear view of the cars displayed inside .
Runs front passenger ' s window up
Front Passenger ' s Window Up
Runs front passenger ' s window down
Front Passenger ' s Window Down
Runs left rear window up
Left Rear Window Up
Runs left rear window down
Left Rear Window Down
Runs right rear window up
Right Rear Window Up
A plan of escape routes is an important part of the safety plan .
Where possible the service workshop should be on the primary elevation and also be visible from the main traffic routes .
Runs right rear window down
Right Rear Window Down
Turns power window relay on / off
Power Window Relay
Wiper
Turns wiper low speed on / off
Windshield Wiper Motor Low Command
Turns wiper high speed on / off
Windshield Wiper Motor High Command
Turns windshield washer on / off
Where possible the used car offer should also be visible from the main traffic routes .
Windshield Washer Command
Turns rear window washer on / off
Turns rear window wiper on / off
Rear Wiper Motor
Turn horns on / off
Operates horn for 1 sec .
Power Seat
Turns power seat indicator on / off
Memory Seat Indicator 1
Runs power seat motors
ENTRANCE AND ROUTING CLARITY
Rear UP-DOWN Motor-Full Up
Memory Buzzer-5 seconds
Power Sliding Door
Operates left power sliding door
Power Slide Door Motor :
Open ( 2 sec . )
Close ( 2 sec . )
Magnet Clutch ( 2 sec . )
Release Actuator ( 1,3 sec . )
Closer Motor
The access onto the site and routing about the dealership must be clear , convenient and safe .
Buzzer
Operates right power sliding door
Door
Outputs LOCK signal 1 time to all doors
Lock All Doors
Unlock All
Outputs UNLOCK signal 1 time to driver ' s door
Unlock Driver ' s Side Door
Runs left sliding door lock actuator
Left Sliding Door Lock
This will also encourage impulse visits from passers-by .
Lock signal 1 time
Left Sliding Door Unlock
Unlock signal 1 time
Runs power tailgate motor
Full Open Position
Full Close Position
Operates power tailgate electromagnetic clutch
Operates On For 1 sec .
Runs power tailgate release actuator
The entrance to the site must be clearly marked and highly visible through the use of a pylon with our logo and flag .
Turn rear window defogger relay on / off
Rear Defogger
Operates a relay for 60 sec .
Check the PCM for DTCs and troubleshooting PCM or F-CAN loss of communication errors first , then perform this diagnosis if the symptom is related to the B-CAN system .
Perform this diagnosis first if the symptom is related to the B-CAN system .
Always turn the ignition switch within 3 seconds when prompted in the DTC troubleshooting procedures in this section .
Check the symptom against this list of B-CAN related systems :
Exterior lights
Turn signals
Entry light control
It should be situated in such a way as to allow safe and easy access onto and off the site .
Safety indicators
Rear window defogger
Horns ( sFTrity and panic )
Chimes ( key-in , seat belt , lights-on and parking brake )
Power window / moonroof timer
Wiper / washer
Climate control
Key interlock
Dash light brightness
On entering the site both customer parking and the entrance to the dealership must be clearly visible .
Driving position memory system
Power tailgate
XM radio
Immobilizer
Is the symptom related to the B-CAN system ?
Go to the system troubleshooting for the system with the symptom .
Connect the Polox system , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
From the BODY ELECTRICAL system select menu , select UNIT INFORMATION , and then select CONNECTED UNIT listed to see if it is communicating with the Polox system .
If the unit is communicating with the Polox system , DETECT will be displayed .
If the unit is not communicating , Not Available ' ' will be displayed .
CUSTOMER PARKING
the Polox system only checks the status one time when BODY ELECTRICAL is selected .
To recheck the status after repair , reboot the Polox system .
Are all control units communicating with the Polox system ?
If any of the control unit are not communicating , go to B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode B .
If all units are not communicating or only the MICU is communicating , go to DTC B1000 troubleshooting .
Select the system that has the problem from BODY ELECTRICAL system select menu , then select DTCs .
Are any DTCs indicated ?
If the problem is related to one of the following items , go to B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode C , if the system does not stop or turn off .
Go to Test Mode D if the system does not run or turn on .
If the problem is related to one of the following items , go to the troubleshooting for that individual system .
Most visitors to the dealership will come by car and it is essential that there is sufficient and convenient customer parking spaces available at all times .
Chimes ( key-in , seat belt and lights-on )
Rear window defogger ( climate control )
Dash lights brightness
Audio system
Navigation
Record all DTCs , and sort them by DTC type .
Troubleshoot the DTC ( s ) in this order :
Battery voltage DTCs .
Internal error DTCs .
Loss of communication DTCs .
Accidents of all kinds
These should be situated close to the entrance of the showroom .
Begin troubleshooting with the lowest number first ( Example :
if DTC B1008 and B1011 are retrieved , begin by troubleshooting B1008 ) .
Refer to loss of communication DTC cross reference chart .
Signal error DTCs .
Perform this diagnosis if a component that is controlled by the B-CAN system does not stop or turn off .
If the component does not turn ON , go to B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode D .
See the B-CAN system unit input / output index for a list of input and output devices and the control units that monitor the input and controls the output devices .
Check for DTCs by selecting the TEST MODE menu from the Polox system .
Go to B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Turn OFF the switch that controls the malfunctioning component .
Where space is limited the dealer should instigate a procedure ( such as a drop off system ) to ensure that there are always parking spaces available or a place to stop and hand over the car .
Select DATA LIST from the TEST MODE menu , and check the input of the switch that controls the component .
Does the Polox system indicate the switch is OFF ?
In DATA LIST , check the output signal of the malfunctioning component .
Is the output signal OFF ?
Replace the control unit that controls the device that will not turn OFF .
Check the relay if applicable , then check for a short in the wire between the relay and the component , the relay and control unit , or the component and control unit .
Is the relay and the wire harness OK ?
Replace the control unit that controls the component that will not turn OFF .
Replace the relay or repair the wire harness .
Check the switch , then check for a short in the wire between the switch and the control unit that monitors the switch .
Full consideration of regulatory handicapped parking should apply .
Is the switch and the wire harness OK ?
Replace the control unit that monitors the switch .
Replace the switch or repair the wire harness .
Perform this diagnosis if any of the control units are not communicating ( Not Available is displayed in the Polox system ) as found by the B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Using the Polox system , select the system that has the symptom from BODY ELECTRICAL .
Select DTCs , and then check for loss of communication DTCs .
Are any loss of communication DTCs indicated ?
Replace the MICU .
Perform the input test for the unit ( s ) not communicating with the Polox system .
Troubleshoot Rear MICU loss of communication DTCs before troubleshooting AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) the power tailgate control unit , and the power seat control unit DTC .
SINGLE ENTRANCE
Unit not communicating
Perform this diagnosis if a component that is controlled by the B-CAN system does not run or come on .
If the component does not turn off or stop , go to B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode C .
See the B-CAN system unit input / output index for a list of input and output devices and the control units that monitor the input and controls the output devices .
Check the fuse of the malfunctioning output device .
Replace the fuse and recheck .
Turn ON the switch that controls the malfunctioning component .
Select DATA LIST from the TEST MODE menu , and check output signal for the malfunctioning component .
Is there an output signal ?
Check the relay and ground , then check for an open or a short in the circuit for the malfunctioning component .
The single entrance with our stand , logo and flag provide one highly visible entrance through which all customers may enter the dealership to obtain information and assistance on all our products and services .
Is the relay and the circuit OK ?
Replace the relay or repair the wire circuit .
Perform the function test for the malfunctioning component .
Does the output device pass the function test ?
Replace the component .
With the malfunctioning output device connected , connect a voltmeter between the malfunctioning output device and body ground on the wire that the control unit uses to control the output device circuit .
Select MISC .
TEST from the TEST MODE menu , and do the forced operation test of the malfunctioning component .
Is there a change in voltage ( 12 V to 0 V or 0 V to 12 V ) ?
Replace the control unit that controls the malfunctioning component .
The objective is to ensure that the customer :
Select DATA LIST from the TEST MODE menu , and ensure the switch signal input for the malfunctioning system indicates a change when operated .
Does the switch input indicate ON when the switch is ON ?
Check the switch and its ground ( if applicable ) , then check for an open or a short in the wire between the switch and the control unit that monitors it .
MPCS ( MCIC ) service connector
Test Mode 1
Check the PCM for DTCs and troubleshoot PCM or F-CAN loss of communication errors first , then perform this diagnosis if the Polox system is not available .
Check the No . 7 ( 10 A ) and No . 21 ( 7,5 A ) fuses in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Find and repair the cause of the blown fuse .
Remove the left kick panel .
May easily find the entrance to the dealership .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and move the ceiling light switch to the middle ( door ) position .
Connect the MPCS service connector ( A ) to the MCIC socket ( B ) in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Wait 5 seconds , and watch the ceiling lights .
When the ceiling lights flash quickly once , and then go off , the system is in Test Mode 1 .
Check for B-CAN DTCs indicated by the gauge control module LCD display while still in Test Mode 1 . Push the odometer select / reset button to display the next code .
After you get to the last code , the display shows END .
If no DTCs are stored , the display will read NO .
Record all DTCs and sort them .
Troubleshoot the DTCs in this order :
Loss of communication DTCs ( begin with the lowest number first ; for example , if B1008 and B1011 are retrieved , troubleshoot B1008 first ) .
Does not have to consider which of the multiple entrances he should use .
Refer to less of communication DTC cross reference chart .
Clear the DTCs by pressing and holding the select / reset button for about 10 seconds .
You will hear a beep to confirm the codes have been cleared .
Operate the devices that failed , and recheck for codes .
Remove the MPCS service connector from the under-dash fuse / relay box socket for 5 − 10 seconds , then re-insert it to enter Mode 2 . When the system enters Mode 2 , the ceiling light will flash two times quickly and then go off .
If the MPCS connector is disconnected for too short or too long of a time , or the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) , the system will return to Test Mode 1 .
The following tables list the circuits that can be checked in Test Mode 2 . Operate the switch that is most closely related to the problem .
If the circuit is OK , the ceiling lights will blink once .
If the circuit is faulty , there will be no indication .
Driver ' s door switch ( OPEN )
Will receive immediate attention and that visitors may be better managed .
Front passenger ' s door switch ( OPEN )
Left rear door switch ( OPEN )
Right rear door switch ( OPEN )
Audio security ground ( when disconnected )
Mirror select switch ( LEFT , CENTER , RIGHT )
Mirror switch ( LEFT , RIGHT , UP , DOWN )
The front passenger ' s and door lock knob switches must be in the locked position when beginning the test .
RELAY CONTROL MODULE
Windshield wiper switch ( AUTO STOP / PARK )
Hood switch ( OPEN )
While this represents the optimum situation the concept may also be applied to dealerships with more than one entrance by removing the signage or directions to other entrances and ensuring that only one main entrance is clearly marked .
COMBINATION SWITCH CONTROL UNIT
Turn signal switch ( LEFT )
Turn signal switch ( RIGHT )
Combination light switch ( ON ; each position )
Dimmer switch ( ON )
Passing switch ( ON )
Windshield wiper switch ( ON )
Intermittent wiper dwell timer
Windshield washer switch ( ON )
Fog light switch ( ON )
GENERAL Safety
Buildings - Site , Building Form and Interior Space Planning - Revision 2
Rear window wiper switch ( ON )
Rear window washer switch ( ON )
REAR MICU
Tailgate latch switch ( ON )
Tailgate outer handle switch ( Without power tailgate ) ( ON )
DRIVER ' S MPCS UNIT
Power window master switch ( Driver ' s window UP )
Power window master switch ( Driver ' s window DOWN )
Power window master switch ( Driver ' s window AUTO UP )
Power window master switch ( Driver ' s window AUTO DOWN )
INTERIOR SPACEPLANNING
Power window master switch ( Front passenger ' s window UP )
Power window master switch ( Front passenger ' s window DOWN )
Power window master switch ( Front passenger ' s window AUTO UP )
Power window master switch ( Front passenger ' s window AUTO DOWN )
Power window master switch ( Left rear window UP )
Power window master switch ( Left rear window DOWN )
Power window master switch ( Right rear window UP )
Power window master switch ( Right rear window DOWN )
Driver ' s door key cylinder switch * ( LOCK )
Driver ' s door key cylinder switch * ( UNLOCK )
COMBINED CENTRAL RECEPTION
Driver ' s door lock switch ( LOCK )
Driver ' s door lock switch ( UNLOCK )
Left rear door lock knob switch * * ( UNLOCK )
Driving position memory switches ( 1 , 2 , memo )
Left rear power window switch ( UP )
Left rear power window switch ( DOWN )
Fuel fill door opener switch ( ON )
A second key is necessary to check the key cylinder inputs .
Be sure to rotate the key cylinder switch two times to each position ( lock and lock , unlock and unlock ) to ensure the door lock knob switch is in the appropriate position .
The left rear door lock knob switches must be in the locked position when beginning the test .
Clearly visible from the entrance , the combined central reception area is the very heart of the dealership .
GAUGE CONTROL MODULE
Parking brake switch ( ON ; parking brake applied )
Cruise control main SET / RESUME / CANCEL switch ( ON ; switch pressed )
Transmission range switch ( P , R , N , D )
Washer fluid level switch ( fluid removed ) ( Canada )
Brake fluid level switch ( fluid removed )
Illumination control switches ( + , − )
MID switches ( Select / Reset , )
POWER SEAT CONTROL UNIT
Power seat slide switch ( FORWARD , BACKWARD )
The combined reception provides information and processing for all customers sales , service , parts and general inquiries .
Power seat front up-down switch ( UP , DOWN )
Power seat rear up-down switch ( UP , DOWN )
Power seat recline switch ( FORWARD , RECLINE )
Power tilt / telescopic steering switch ( UP , DOWN , PUSH , PULL )
FRONT PASSENGER ' S MPCS UNIT
Front passenger ' s door lock knob switch * ( UNLOCK )
Right rear door lock knob switch * ( UNLOCK )
Front passenger ' s door lock switch ( LOCK )
Front passenger ' s door lock switch ( UNLOCK )
Front passenger ' s power window switch ( UP , DOWN , AUTO )
This ensures that all a customer ’ s requirements may be met in one location and that the customer is exposed to the other services offered at the dealership .
Right rear power window switch ( UP , DOWN )
The front passenger ' s and right rear door lock knob switches must be in the locked position when beginning the test .
Do the map lights indicate proper switch operation ?
Go to function and input test for the system related to the failure .
Repair the open , short , or replace the faulty switch .
Shift to the sleep mode :
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) and close the driver ' s door .
If the MICU receives no signals from the inputs listed below , it will go into sleep mode in less than 40 seconds .
Driver ' s door lock switch ( LOCK or UNLOCK )
Driver ' s door key cylinder switch ( LOCK or UNLOCK )
For example a customer having his car serviced will be able to view the new cars and accessories , a new vehicle owner can see how well vehicles are maintained .
Front passenger ' s door lock switch ( LOCK or UNLOCK )
Tailgate latch switch ( Tailgate closed )
Hazard warning switch ( OFF )
Power tailgate outer handle switch
Power tailgate inside switch
Power tailgate opener switch
Confirm the sleep mode :
Measure the frequency on the B-CAN communication line ( LT GRN wires ) ; there should be 0 Hz in the sleep mode .
Check the parasitic draw at the battery while shifting into the sleep mode ; amperage should change from about 2,6 A to less than 35 mA .
Shift to the wake up mode :
Adjacent main entrance .
When the ignition switch is turned to ON ( II ) , the MICU , and all B-CAN system components wake up .
When any switch in the multiplex integrated control system is turned on , a message is sent to the related control unit ( s ) to command the desired function .
After confirming the sleep mode , look in the following table for the switch most related to the problem .
Operate that switch and see if its control unit wakes up .
If any control unit is faulty and will not wake up , several circuits in the system will malfunction at the same time .
In the table below , the control unit is followed by a list of the switches and input signals that can wake it up .
Door switches ( door open )
Driver ' s door lock knob switch ( LOCK or UNLOCK )
Driver ' s door key cylinder switch ( LOCK or UNLOCK )
Front passenger ' s door lock knob switch ( LOCK or UNLOCK )
Good view of customer parking .
Left rear door lock knob switch
Right rear door lock knob switch
Tailgate latch switch ( Tailgate open )
Hood switch ( hood open )
Hazard warning switch ( ON )
Combination light switch ( Parking , Headlight , Dimmer , Passing ON )
Ignition key switch ( key inserted )
Before testing the rear MICU , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Remove the left rear trim .
Disconnect rear fuse / relay box connectors B ( 34P ) and C ( 42P ) .
Adjacent to customer waiting area and hospitality .
With the connectors still disconnected , do these input tests at the following connectors .
Under all conditions ( Under-dash fuse / relay box connector G ( 6P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between the B2 terminal and the under-dash fuse / relay box connector G ( 6P ) terminal No . 1 :
Check for continuity to ground :
There should be no continuity .
Under all conditions ( Power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) disconnected )
Check for continuity between the B14 terminal and the power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 40 :
Under all conditions ( Power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) disconnected )
After reading this manual , personnel should review all instructions concerning company safety procedures provided at the installation location .
View of info , merchandise and accessories .
Check for continuity between the C16 terminal and the power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) terminal No . 7 :
Under all conditions ( AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) disconnected )
Check for continuity between the C32 terminal and the ( AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) terminal No . 5 :
With AcuraLink
Reconnect the connectors , and do these input tests at the following connectors .
If all the input tests prove OK , replace the front passenger ' s MPCS unit , then go to .
Faulty front passenger ' s MPCS unit
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , and front passenger ' s power window motor runs by connecting the B8 and B1 terminals and the B7 and B14 terminals with jumper wires .
If all the input tests prove OK , the rear MICU must be faulty , replace the rear fuse / relay box .
There should be less than 0,5 V .
Within the showroom .
Faulty rear fuse / relay box
Before testing the driver ' s MPCS unit , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Disconnect driver ' s MPCS unit connectors A ( 40P ) and B ( 14P ) .
Under all conditions ( Under-dash fuse / relay box connector J ( 21P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between the A28 terminal and the under-dash fuse / relay box connector J ( 21P ) terminal No . 4 :
An open in the wire .
If all the input tests prove OK , replace the driver ' s MPCS unit .
Before testing the MICU , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
CUSTOMER WAITING AREA
Disconnect under-dash fuse / relay box connectors D , E , F , G , H , J , N , P , Q , W , and X .
All connector views are wire side of female terminals .
Under all conditions ( Under-hood fuse / relay box connector E ( 14P ) disconnected )
Check for continuity between the D11 terminal and the under-hood fuse / relay box connector E ( 14P ) terminal No . 1 :
Under all conditions ( Rear fuse / relay box connector B ( 34P ) disconnected )
Check for continuity between the G1 terminal and the rear fuse / relay box connector B ( 34P ) terminal No . 2 :
Under all conditions ( Driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) disconnected )
Check for continuity between the J4 terminal and the driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 28 :
A comfortable and well furnished waiting area or customer zone should be provided for customers .
Under all conditions ( MICU connector P ( 30P ) disconnected )
Check for continuity between the P6 terminal and the XTF terminal No . 7 :
Under all conditions ( Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) disconnected )
Check for continuity between the N22 terminal and the gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminal No . 5 :
Under all conditions ( Combination switch control unit 8P connector disconnected )
Check for continuity between the N28 terminal and the combination switch control unit 8P connector terminal No . 4 :
Under all conditions ( Immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector disconnected )
The customers must not feel isolated and this is an opportunity to demonstrate the other products , services and facilities of the dealership .
Check for continuity between the X27 terminal and the immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector terminal No . 4 :
Under all conditions ( Climate control unit 40P connector disconnected )
Check for continuity between the X27 terminal and the climate control unit 40P connector terminal No . 4 :
Under all conditions ( Audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected )
Check for continuity between the X27 terminal and the audio unit connector C ( 24P ) terminal No . 23 :
Under all conditions ( HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector disconnected )
Check for continuity between the X27 terminal and the HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector terminal No . 19 :
If all the input tests prove OK , the MICU must be faulty ; replace the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Waiting area must be close to and have visual contact with the reception .
Ignition switch ON ( II ) ( Rear fuse / relay box connector B ( 34P ) disconnected )
A short to ground in the wire between the MICU and rear fuse / relay box
Short connection to ground :
The ignition key light should come on .
Faulty ignition key light
Under all conditions , ( Interior lights switch in DOOR position )
The interior lights should come on .
Blown map lights or ceiling light bulb ( s )
Accessories , merchandise and information should be displayed in this area .
Before testing the relay control module , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Remove the under-hood fuse / relay box .
Disconnect under-hood fuse / relay box connectors D ( 10P ) and E ( 14P ) .
Under all conditions ( Under-dash fuse / relay box connector D ( 17P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between the E1 terminal and the under-dash fuse / relay box connector D ( 17P ) terminal No . 11 :
If all the input tests prove OK , replace the relay control module .
The waiting area should open onto the showroom and also have a view into the workshop .
Before testing , check the B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Open the tailgate , and remove the left side trim panel .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the fuel fill door opener solenoid ( B ) .
Check solenoid operation by connecting power to the terminal No . 1 and ground to the terminal No . 2 . To prevent damage to the solenoid , apply battery voltage only momentarily .
If using a recommended battery charger , follow the charger ' s instructions for newly activated sealed battery .
recommended chargers
The solenoid should work .
If the solenoid does not work as specified , replace it .
Disconnect the 6D ( or 7P ) * connector ( A ) from the fuel fill door opener switch ( B ) .
Check for continuity between the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 .
The waiting area must be adjacent to hospitality services and dedicated toilet facilities .
There should be continuity with the switch pressed .
There should be no continuity with the switch released .
Before testing the gauge system , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
The gauge control module has a self-diagnostic function .
The beeper drive circuit check .
The indicator drive circuit check .
The switch input test .
The LCD segments check .
The gauges drive circuit check ( speedometer , tachometer , fuel gauge , coolant temperature gauge ) .
The communication line check ( of the body-controller area network ( B-CAN ) communication line and the fast-controller area network ( F-CAN ) communication line between the gauges ) .
CUSTOMER TOILETS AND HOSPITALITY
Indicators are also controlled via the communication line .
Entering the self-diagnostic function
Before doing the self-diagnostic function , check the No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuse and the No . 21 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Push and hold the SEL RESET button .
Turn the headlights ON .
Within 5 sec . , turn the headlights OFF , then ON and OFF again .
Within 5 sec . , release the SELECT button , and then push and release the button three times repeatedly .
While in the self-diagnostic mode , the dash lights brightness controller operates normally .
While in the self-diagnostic mode , the SELECT button is used to start the Beeper Drive Circuit Test and the Gauge Drive Circuit Check .
If the vehicle speed exceeds 1,2 mph ( 2 km / h ) or the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) , the self-diagnostic mode ends .
Pick up position
It is not possible to cover all safety conditions in this manual ; therefore , always be alert and work safely .
The dealership must clearly demonstrate their concern for the customer ’ s comfort .
The Indicator Drive Circuit Check
When entering the self-diagnostic mode , these indicators blink :
ABS indicator , active damper system indicator , A / T gear position indicator , brake system indicator , charging system indicator , cruise control indicator , cruise main indicator , DRL indicator , fog light indicator , high beam indicator , immobilizer indicator , lights-on indicator , low fuel indicator , malfunction indicator lamp ( MIL ) , message indicator , oil pressure indicator , seat belt indicator , security indicator , SH-AWD indicator , Side airbag indicator , tire pressure indicator , VSA activation indicator , and VSA indicator .
Switch Input Check
After the intermittent beeper sounds at the initial stage of self-diagnosis , a beeper sounds continuously while any of the following switch inputs are switched from OFF to ON :
Parking brake switch , VSA OFF switch , comfort switch , cruise control master , SET , RESUME , CANCEL switches , select , previous , next switches , and dash lights brightness controller ( VOL ( + ) , VOL ( − ) ) .
The Beeper Drive Circuit Check
When entering the self-diagnostic mode , the beeper sounds five times .
The LCD [ Sport shift and multi-information display ( MID ) ] Segment Check
When entering the self-diagnostic mode , the word Checking Now ' ' shows on the MID .
This may be realised by the quality and variety of facilities that are provided for the customer .
The Gauge Drive Circuit Check
When entering the self-diagnostic mode , the speedometer , the tachometer , the fuel gauge , and the coolant temperature gauge needles sweep from the minimum position to maximum position , then return to the minimum position .
After the beeper stops sounding and the gauge needles return to the minimum position , pushing the select / reset button starts the Beeper Drive Circuit Check ( one beep ) and the Gauge Drive Circuit Check again .
The check cannot be started again until the gauge needles return to the minimum position .
If any needle fails to sweep or the beeper does not sound , replace the gauge control module .
The Communication Line Check
While in the self-diagnostic mode , the Communication Line Check starts after the LCD Segment Check .
Indication pattern
There is a malfunction in the communication line between the F-CAN and gauge control module .
The B-CAN is OK at this time .
Dedicated high quality clean and well maintained customer toilets .
Check for DTCs in the PCM and troubleshoot any DTCs found .
If no DTCs are found , go to B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
There is a malfunction in the communication line between the B-CAN and gauge control module .
The F-CAN line is OK at this time .
Go to B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
There is a malfunction in the communication line between the gauge control module and F-CAN and B-CAN .
Ending the self-diagnostic function
If the vehicle speed exceeds 1,2 mph ( 2 km / h ) , the self-diagnostic function ends .
Obtain a new gauge control module before starting the rewriting process .
Rewriting is not possible on a gauge control module that will not communicate with the Polox system .
Readily available hot and soft drinks .
ensure that the Polox system shows the correct VIN for the car you are working on .
Once you have started this procedure , you must complete it before removing the Polox system from the XTF .
Connect a battery jumper box ( not a battery charger ) to ensure that correct battery voltage will be maintained .
Before replacing the gauge control module , connect the Polox system .
Select GAUGES from the BODY ELECTRICAL system select menu with the Polox system .
Select Gauge Control Module Replacement ( ODO Rewrite ) ' ' from the ADJUSTMENT menu , and follow the instructions on the display to retrieve the ODO value and the Maintenance Minder Data Information .
Replace the gauge control module .
Follow the instructions on the display to write the new ODO value and Maintenance Minder Data to the new gauge control module .
If the data transfer fails , refer to the instructions below to release the locked ODO value .
Release Locked odometer mileage to the original gauge control module .
This should be served to the customer in good quality crockery .
If after you attempt to transfer mileage , the new odometer has dashes ( − − − ) , garbled , or an incorrect value displayed , do the following :
Start over .
The original gauge control module is going to be unlocked and restored to its original state .
Confirm that you have the latest HDS version of software .
With the ignition switch in LOCK ( 0 ) position , reconnect the original gauge control module .
Completely re-boot the Polox system .
Clear any stored DTCs .
Navigate to Body Electric / Gauges / Adjustment / Instrument Panel Replacement .
Select 3 . Releasing Locked ODO Value . ' '
Follow the prompts and the Odometer mileage will be restored .
A hospitality point with fresh coffee and tea where customers can help themselves is a good idea .
Start over and ensure the screen prompts are followed .
Before testing the gauge control module , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) and remove the gauge control module .
Disconnect gauge control module connectors A ( 12P ) and B ( 24P ) .
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector N ( 46D ) disconnected
Check for continuity between the A5 and the under-dash fuse / relay box connector N ( 46D ) terminal No . 22 :
PCM connector A ( 49P ) disconnect
Check for continuity between the A6 and the PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminal No . 1 :
Comfortable good quality seating , informal but not domestic should be provided in waiting and informal meeting areas .
PCM connector A ( 49P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between the A12 and the PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminal No . 36 :
Reconnect the connectors , turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and do these input tests at the following connectors .
If all the input tests prove OK , replace the gauge control module .
Blown No . 21 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the main under-dash fuse / relay box
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , brake fluid is full level in the reservoir
There should be more than 5 V .
Faulty brake fluid level switch
Customer entertainment , our brand advertisements , current motoring magazines or today ’ s papers , TV , video or DVD programmes may all make the visit to the dealership more enjoyable .
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , brake fluid is lower level in the reservoir
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , parking brake pedal pressed
There should be more than less than .
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , parking brake pedal released
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , washer fluid is half or more in the washer reservoir
Faulty washer fluid level switch
Before replacing the gauge control module , do the Rewriting the ODO Data and Transferring the Maintenance Minder Data to a New Gauge Control Module ' ' .
Remove the parts shown :
Small children ’ s play area .
Driver ' s switch panel .
Instrument fascia .
Remove the screws from the gauge control module ( A ) .
Disconnect the connectors ( B ) , and remove the gauge control module .
Install the gauge control module in the reverse order of removal .
Disconnect the dashboard wire harness 20P connector ( A ) from the cable reel ( B ) .
Using a jumper wire , connect the dashboard wire harness 20P connector terminal No . 2 to body ground .
The horns should sound .
If the horns sound , go to .
If the horns do not sound , check these items :
Parents will be more receptive if their young children are happily and safely amused .
No . 11 ( 15 A ) fuse in the main under-hood fuse box .
Reconnect the dashboard wire harness 20P connector ( A ) to the cable reel ( B ) .
Remove the driver ' s airbag assembly , and disconnect the horn switch 1P terminal from the driver ' s airbag .
Check for continuity between the dashboard wire harness 20P connector terminal No . 2 and the horn switch 1P terminal .
If there is continuity , check the installation of the driver ' s airbag assembly and the steering wheel .
If the installation is correct , faulty horn switch ; replace the driver ' s airbag assembly .
If there is no continuity , repair an open in the wire between the cable reel and the horn switch 1P terminal , if the wire harness is OK , replace the cable reel .
Remove the upper grille .
Disconnect the 1P connector ( A ) from each horn ( B ) .
Test the horn by connecting battery power to the terminal ( A ) and grounding the bracket ( B ) .
NOTE
Note – if this facility is provided great care must be taken to ensure children will be safe ( e . g . cannot walk out of the dealership ) and parents must be made aware that this is not a supervised cr è che .
The horn should sound .
If it fails to sound , replace it .
Before testing the reminder system control unit , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Before testing the reminder system control unit , troubleshoot the F-CAN system first , using gauge control module self-diagnosis function .
MICU ( Common Test )
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) and remove the left kick panel .
Disconnect under-dash fuse / relay box connectors E , H , P and Q .
GAUGE CONTROL MODULE ( Common Test )
If all the input tests prove OK , go to the appropriate input test .
Teenagers take care of themselves .
Key-in reminder , go to .
Parking brake reminder , go to .
Lights-on reminder , do the combination switch control unit input test and the combination light switch test .
Seat belt reminder , do the seat belt buckle switch test .
Key-in reminder
Reconnect the under-dash fuse / relay box connectors , turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and do these input tests at the following connectors .
If all the input tests prove OK , the MICU must be faulty , replace the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Ignition key inserted into the ignition switch
Faulty ignition key switch
Ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) and the ignition key removed from the ignition switch
Disabled facilities and access .
Driver ' s door open
Faulty driver ' s door switch
Driver ' s door closed
Attach to ground :
Parking Brake Reminder
Reconnect the gauge control module connectors , turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and do these input tests at the following connector .
Faulty parking brake switch
These facilities should be visible easily from the showroom and waiting area .
To test the outside air temperature sensor .
The outside temperature sensor is located behind the center of the front bumper .
The gauge control module uses measurements from this sensor to display the outside air temperature .
Because of the location of the sensor , it may be affected by heat reflection from the road , engine and radiator heat , or hot exhaust from surrounding traffic .
These conditions can heat soak the outside air temperature sensor and cause inaccurate readings .
Logic has been written into the gauge control module to help prevent abnormal or fluctuating outside air temperature indicator readings .
Outside Air Temperature Indicator Logic
Initial outside air temperature indication after the ignition switch is turned ON ( II ) .
If the engine coolant temperature is 140 F ( 60 C ) or higher when the ignition switch is turned ON ( II ) , the outside air temperature indicated the last time the key was turned to LOCK ( 0 ) will be displayed regardless of the current temperature measured by the outside air temperature sensor .
CONFIDENTIAL AREAS
If the engine coolant temperature is 139 F ( 59 C ) or lower when the ignition switch is turned ON ( II ) , the current temperature measured by the outside air temperature sensor will be indicated .
Update to the outside air temperature indicator while driving
If the temperature measured by the outside air temperature sensor is greater than the temperature on the outside air temperature indicator , the outside temperature indicator will increase by 1 F ( 1 C ) per minute after the vehicle speed is greater than 19 mph ( 30 km / h ) for more than 30 seconds .
The brand symbol should not appear on the facility except as provided on the Entrance Statement and Entrance Panel on a Projecting Sign .
It will continue to increase until the current outside air temperature is indicated .
So , the first change to the outside air temperature indicator is 1 minute and 30 seconds after the vehicle speed is greater than 19 mph ( 30 km / h ) .
If the vehicle speed drops below 19 mph ( 30 km / h ) , the indicator will not update again until the vehicle speed is increased to more than 19 mph ( 30 km / h ) for more than 1 minute and 30 seconds again .
If the outside air temperature is less than 140 F ( 60 C ) , the temperature increases 1 F ( 1 C ) every 2 seconds until the current outside air temperature .
If the outside air temperature is less than the indicated temperature , the temperature will decrease 1 F ( 1 C ) every 2 seconds until the current outside air temperature is indicated regardless of vehicle speed .
Troubleshooting
A requirement of every showroom is that there are private areas where customers may negotiate the purchase of a car including discussing personal financial details .
If the indicator displays ' ' for more than 2 seconds after selecting the outside air temperature display mode , check the climate control system or multiplex integrated control system for DTCs ( see B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A ) .
Calibration
The outside air temperature indicator ' s displayed temperature can be recalibrated 5 F or 3 C to meet the client ' s expectations .
Calibrate the outside air temperature with the Polox system or by custom memory setting .
Daytime Running Lights
The daytime running lights system is composed of the relay control module , the combination control unit , the left and right daytime running lights , and the DRL indication on the multi-information display ( MID ) .
The daytime running lights operate with the ignition switch in ON ( II ) , the headlights off , and the parking brake released .
When the daytime running lights are on , the relay control module turns the left and right daytime running lights control circuit on and off ( duty cycle ) which provides a reduced voltage ( approximately 6 − 8 volts ) via the No . 1 and No . 2 fuses in the under-hood fuse / relay box .
The DRL comes on with reduced brightness .
The gauge control module will show the DRL indication on the multi-information display ( MID ) with the ignition switch in ON ( II ) and the parking brake released when a problem is detected with the daytime running lights circuit .
These areas must be relaxing and non-threatening for the customer and should be partly or fully enclosed .
The daytime running lights are disabled when the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) .
To keep the daytime running lights from coming on , apply the parking brake switch while the ignition switch is in the LOCK ( 0 ) position .
When you then turn the ignition switch back ON ( II ) , the daytime running lights will not come on until the parking brake is released .
Disconnect the combination light switch 20P connector ( A ) from the combination light switch ( B ) .
Remove the two screws , then slide out the combination light switch .
Inspect the connector terminals to be sure they are all making good contact .
If the terminals look OK , check for continuity between the terminals in each switch position according to the tables .
Pull the license plate light assembly out , and disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the light .
License Plate Light :
Acoustically and , to a lesser extent , visually private .
Separate the lens ( B ) and housing , then remove the bulb .
Install the light in the reverse order of removal .
Disconnect the 4P connector ( A ) from the brake pedal position switch ( B ) .
There should be continuity when the brake pedal is pressed .
There should be no continuity when the brake pedal is released .
There should be no continuity when the brake pedal is pressed .
There should be continuity when the brake pedal is released .
If necessary , adjust the pedal height , or replace the switch .
Remove the tailgate spoiler .
Remove the two screws from the high mount brake light ( A ) .
The customer and the sales person be on equal terms .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( B ) from the high mount brake light .
Remove the inner fender .
Disconnect the 2P connectors ( A ) from the fog lights / daytime running lights ( B ) .
Fog Light :
Daytime Running Light :
Turn the fog light bulb socket and the daytime running light bulb socket ( D ) 45 counterclockwise to remove them from the housing .
Install new bulb ( s ) in the reverse order of removal .
ensure the bulb ( s ) are fully sealed in the housing and locked into place .
Do not touch the glass of the bulb with your hands .
The environment be comfortable , relaxing and of good quality .
If necessary , clean the glass area with alcohol .
Disconnect the 2P connectors ( A ) from the fog light and the daytime running light ( B ) .
Remove the screw , then remove the light .
After replacement , adjust the fog lights / daytime running lights .
Before adjusting the fog light / daytime running light :
Park the vehicle on a level surface .
ensure the tire pressures are correct .
Have the driver or someone who weighs the same sit in the driver ' s seat .
Adjust the fog lights / daytime running lights to local requirements by turning the adjuster ( A ) .
A transient high tension ( 25.000 V ) occurs at the bulb sockets or the high intensity discharge ( HID ) lamps when the combination light switch is turned ON , it may cause serious electrical shock or electrocution if you do not observe the cautions .
Only qualified machine operators and maintenance personnel should perform the procedures covered in this manual .
This application of the customer comfort concept requires a degree of control and structuring on behalf of the dealers staff in respect of working practices and good ‘ housekeeping ’ .
Never turn on the combination light switch before fitting the HID bulbs to their bulb sockets and completing the reassembly of the headlight assembly .
Do not service the headlights assembly in wet conditions , such as rain or snow , near a sprinkler system , or when your hands are wet to prevent electrocution .
Do not touch the surface of the HID bulbs with your bare hands and do not stain them with any oils and fats .
Do not disassemble the inverter unit and the igniter unit .
Do not turn on the HID bulb by using a power source other than the battery mounted on the vehicle .
HID bulb test light assembly
Before troubleshooting the HID Lamp System , perform the multiplex integrated control system troubleshooting using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Check the No . 1 ( 10 A ) and No . 2 ( 10 A ) fuses in the under-hood fuse / relay box .
Replace the fuse ( s ) , and recheck .
Private offices tend to be located along the back wall of the dealerships whilst semi-private and sales desks can be distributed around the showroom but avoiding the primary elevations where new vehicles should be displayed .
Remove the bulb socket from the HID bulb .
Check for corrosion and traces of electrical arcing on the contacts of the socket ( A ) .
Is the socket corroded or burnt ?
Replace the socket , and recheck .
Connect the HID bulb test light assembly ( A ) to the bulb socket ( B ) .
Turn the combination light ( headlight ) switch ON .
Does the bulb in the test light come on ?
Replace the original HID bulb .
Turn the combination light ( headlight ) switch OFF .
Remove the HID bulb test light assembly from the bulb socket .
NEWCAR DISPLAY - SHOWROOM
Disconnect the HID unit 2P connector .
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 1 of the HID unit 2P connector and body ground .
Faulty HID unit .
Repair open in the wire between the HID unit and body ground .
If the wire is OK , check for poor ground ( G201 / G301 ) .
A transient high tension ( 25.000 V ) occurs at the bulb sockets of the high intensity discharge ( HID ) lamps when the combination light switch is turned ON , it may cause serious electrical shock or electrocution if you do not observe the cautions .
Remove the headlight assembly .
Turn the cover ( A ) 45 counterclockwise to remove it from the headlight assembly .
Turn the socket ( A ) 45 counterclockwise to remove it from the bulb ( B ) .
Pull the retaining spring away from the bulb then remove the bulb .
The showroom layout must put emphasis on displaying the products in the best possible way rather than displaying the maximum amount of vehicles .
Install a new bulb in the reverse order of removal .
ensure the notches in the bulb align with the tabs in the headlight .
Headlight Bulb ( High Beam )
For the left headlight , remove the battery cover , remove the battery hold-down by removing the two nuts , then slide the battery to access the bulb .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the headlight bulb socket ( B ) .
Headlight Bulb :
Turn the bulb socket 45 counterclockwise to remove it from the headlight housing .
Front Parking Light Bulb
For right parking light , remove the clip from windshield washer reservoir .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the front parking light bulb socket ( B ) .
The minimum new car display must show our most popular models plus a prestige or promotional model .
Front Parking Light Bulb :
Front Turn Signal Light Bulb
For the left light , remove the battery cover , remove the battery hold-down by removing the two nuts , then slide the battery to access the bulb .
Disconnect the 3P connector ( A ) from the bulb socket ( B ) .
Front Turn Signal Light Bulb :
Front Side Marker Light Bulb
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the front turn signal / front parking light .
Front Side Marker Light Bulb :
Turn the bulb socket ( B ) 45 counterclockwise to remove it from the headlight housing .
Remove the connectors ( A ) from the headlight assembly ( B ) .
The vehicles should be placed at different angles rather than in straight rows so that the customers are encouraged to wander amongst the vehicles progressing naturally from one car to the next .
Remove the security strap bolt .
Remove the clips and bolts , then remove the headlight .
Remove the bolts ( D ) and the corner upper beam ( E ) from the headlight .
Headlights become very hot during use ; do not touch them or any attaching hardware immediately after they have been turned off .
Install the headlight in the reverse order of removal .
Headlights become very hot during use ; therefore you should not touch them or any attaching hardware immediately after they have been turned off .
After the replacement , do the headlights learning procedure and aim the headlights to local requirements .
Before adjusting the headlights :
The driver or someone who weighs the same should sit in the driver ' s seat .
Clean the outer lens so that you can see the center ( A ) of the headlights .
The most prominent position near the entrance or adjacent external glazing of the showroom should be reserved for the car which is currently being promoted such as the most recently launched vehicle or a special edition .
Park the vehicle in front of a wall or a screen ( A ) .
Turn the low beams on .
Determine if the headlights are aimed properly .
Vertical adjustment :
Measure the height of the headlights ( A ) .
Adjust the cut line ( B ) to the lights height .
If necessary , open the hood and adjust the headlights to local requirements by turning the vertical adjuster .
Remove the three mounting screws and the HID unit ( A ) .
Disconnect the 4P connector ( B ) from the HID unit .
Inspect the gasket for damage .
Information and lifestyle graphics should interact with the cars so that customers may view the car , be informed of its features and visualise using it .
If damaged , replace it .
Install the parts in the reverse order of removal .
Do the headlight initial position learning when any of the related parts of the headlight leveling system shown is replaced :
HID unit
Left-front suspension stroke sensor
Left-rear suspension stroke sensor
Headlight leveling motor
Headlight leveling control unit
Learning Procedure
Before learning the headlights :
The Fixture and POS System has been developed for these purposes .
Remove all of the baggage from the vehicle .
Slide the front seats backward fully .
Have the driver ( about 165 lb ( 75 kg ) ) or someone who weighs the same sit in the driver ' s seat .
Connect the Polox system to the data link connector .
Within 5 seconds , turn the headlights ( low beam ) or passing switch ON and OFF three times repeatedly , and leave them on .
If the headlights aiming moves down ( about 2 in . at 10 feet ) , then returns to the original position , the initial position learning is complete .
If the headlights aiming doesn ' t move , go to and repeat the procedure .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) and disconnect the Polox system from the data link connector .
Adjust the headlight aim to conform with the applicable requirements .
Headlight Leveling System
New car spacing allowing sufficient space to properly view each car .
The headlight leveling system is composed of the headlight leveling control unit , the left-front and left-rear suspension stroke sensors , and the left and right headlight leveling motors .
The system uses the left-front and left-rear suspension stroke sensors to monitor the vehicle ride height .
The ride height is monitored every 3 minutes while the vehicle is running with the headlight switch ON , and 8 seconds after the vehicles stops with the ignition and headlight switches ON .
If the control unit detects a ride height change , the control unit controls the headlight leveling motors to adjust the headlight vertical position .
Suspension Stroke Sensors
The suspension stroke sensors are also one of the active damper system components .
The headlight leveling system uses the left-front and left-rear suspension stroke sensor signals .
The left-front suspension stroke sensor is located at the left front suspension area .
A short link connects the arm of the sensor to the stabilizer bar .
The left-rear suspension stroke sensor is located at the left rear suspension area .
These precautions are not intended to overrule or void established plant safety procedures , which should always be followed .
In general 30 sq m should be allowed .
A short link connects the arm of the sensor to the damper assembly .
The sensors detect the vehicle ride height and sends a voltage signal ( about 0,4 − 4,6 V ) to the headlight leveling control unit .
Headlight Leveling Control Unit
The headlight leveling control unit is located under the passenger ' s side of the dashboard .
The headlight leveling control unit uses the voltage signals it receives from the left-front and left-rear suspension stroke sensors to determine the voltage signal ( about 2 − 11 V ) it sends to control the left and right leveling motors .
Headlight Leveling Motors
The headlight leveling motors are located behind both headlights , and they adjust the headlights vertically based upon the voltage signals ( about 2 − 11 V ) they receive from the headlight leveling control unit .
Disconnect the 3P connector ( A ) from the headlight leveling motor ( B ) .
If the terminals are OK , go to .
Reconnect the connector to the headlight leveling motor , and do these input tests at the following connector .
Separation of new cars and used cars .
If any tests indicate a problem , find and correct the cause , then recheck the system .
If all the input tests prove OK , replace the headlight leveling motor .
There should be about 2 − 12 V .
Depending on the headlight leveling position .
Faulty headlight leveling control unit
Faulty headlight leveling control unit
Removal
Turn the headlight leveling motor ( A ) 45 counterclockwise .
Turn the adjuster ( B ) of the headlight leveling motor until the headlight leveling motor shaft is removed from the headlight .
Installation
Current promotion car in most prominent position .
Insert the headlight leveling motor shaft ( A ) into the headlight housing , then turn the adjuster ( B ) until the shaft connects to the headlight .
Turn the headlight leveling motor 45 clockwise to install to the headlight .
Tighten the adjuster until fully it is secure , but do not over tighten , then back it off 9 turns .
Insert the headlight in the reverse order of removal .
After installing , do the headlight leveling motor initial position learning procedure
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) and remove the glove box .
Disconnect the 16P connector ( A ) from the headlight leveling control unit ( B ) .
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , raise the vehicle , ensure it is securely supported , and rotate one of the front wheels slowly with the other wheel blocked .
Measure the voltage between the terminals No . 15 ( + ) and No . 9 ( − ) :
There should be more than 0 − 5 V and more than 0 − 5 V repeatedly .
Retail and POS System should interact with cars .
Faulty PCM
Check for continuity between the terminals No . 16 and No . 2 of the combination switch control unit 8P connector :
Reconnect the connector , turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and do these input tests at the following connector .
If any test indicate a problem , find and correct the cause , then recheck the system .
If all the input tests prove OK , replace the headlight leveling control unit .
After replacing the control unit , do the headlight initial position learning procedure .
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , headlight switch ON
Measure the voltage between the terminals No . 2 and No . 3 :
Faulty headlight leveling motor
There should be about 2 to 12 V .
Promotions and information displays must be incorporated into the layout to stimulate the customers interest .
Measure the voltage between the terminals No . 13 and No . 12 :
There should be about 5 V .
There should be about 0,5 to 4,5 V .
Faulty left-front suspension stroke sensor
Faulty left-rear suspension stroke sensor
Right side of suspension stroke sensor for active damper system is the same procedure as left side suspension stroke sensor .
After installing the rear suspension stroke sensor , do the memorizing rear suspension full rebound position .
Raise the vehicle , ensure it is securely supported .
Disconnect the 3P connector ( A ) from the suspension stroke sensor ( B ) .
LEFT-FRONT
Provide an interesting routing layout that encourages customers to wander from one car to another .
LEFT-REAR
Remove the bolt and nut , then remove the suspension stroke sensor .
After installing , do the headlight initial position learning procedure .
Before troubleshooting , check the No . 31 ( 15 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Check the active damper system for DTCs and troubleshoot those codes first .
Disconnect the 3P connector ( A ) from the left-front stroke sensor ( B ) .
Disconnect the 3P connector ( A ) from the left-rear stroke sensor ( B ) .
Check for continuity between the left-front and left-rear suspension stroke sensors 3P connector terminal No . 3 and body ground individually .
Repair open in the wire or poor ground ( G401 ) , if the wire is OK , replace the headlight leveling control unit .
Measure the voltage between the left-front and left-rear suspension stroke sensor 3P connector terminal No . 1 and body ground individually .
Use cars to display accessories .
Check for an open or a short in the wire between the headlight leveling control unit and the left-front ( or left-rear ) suspension stroke sensor .
If the wire is OK , replace the left-front ( or left-rear ) suspension stroke sensor .
Remove the nut ( A ) and the left-front suspension stroke sensor from the suspension side .
Remove the nut ( A ) and the left-rear suspension stroke sensor from the suspension side .
Reconnect the 3P connector to each suspension stroke sensor .
Measure the voltage between the headlight leveling control unit 16P connector terminals No . 4 and No . 7 , and terminals No . 6 and No . 12 while the suspension stroke sensor arm ( A ) is moved .
Is there about 0,5 − 4,5 V ?
Intermittent failure , the system is fine at this time .
Check for loose or poor connections between the headlight leveling control unit and the left-front ( or left-rear ) suspension stroke sensor , if the connections are OK , replace the left-front ( or left-rear ) suspension stroke sensor .
Check for an open or a short in the wire between the headlight leveling control unit and the left-front ( or left-rear ) suspension stroke sensor , if the wire is OK , replace the left-front ( or left-rear ) suspension stroke sensor .
USED CAR DISPLAY
Remove the covers ( A ) and two bolts from the taillight ( B ) .
Rear Turn Signal Light :
Rear Side Marker Light :
Carefully pull out the taillight .
Disconnect the connectors from the taillight .
Turn the bulb sockets ( D ) 45 counterclockwise to remove the bulbs ( E ) .
Inner Taillight
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the inner taillight ( B ) .
Remove the five nuts , then remove the inner taillight .
Turn the bulb socket ( A ) 45 counterclockwise to remove the bulb ( B ) .
If the used car display is inside the area it should be separated from the new car display .
Back-up Light :
Remove the taillight .
Remove the four screws ( A ) and the back cover ( B ) from the taillight .
Carefully disconnect the connector ( D ) from the taillight / brake light LED ( E ) .
Remove the two screws ( F ) and the taillight / brake light LED from the taillight housing .
Inspect the gasket , if the gasket is distorted or compressed , replace it .
Install a new LED in the reverse order of removal .
Remove the center panel .
Disconnect the 6P connector ( A ) from the hazard warning switch ( B ) .
Remove the hazard warning switch from the center panel .
The area of the display will be determined by the dealers used car business however it should not be greatly out of proportion to the area allocated to the new car display .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the bulb or the hazard warning switch .
Remove the mirror holder .
Remove the screw , then pull out the side turn signal light ( A ) .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( B ) from the light .
Remove the turn signal / hazard relay ( A ) from the under-dash fuse / relay box ( B ) .
Inspect the relay and fuse / relay box socket terminals to be sure they are all making good contact .
If the terminals are bent , loose , or corroded , repair them as necessary , and recheck the system .
Make these input tests at the under-dash fuse / relay box .
If all the input tests prove OK , the turn signal / hazard relay must be faulty ; replace it .
Teat condition
Know the location of the EMERGENCY STOP devices before proceeding with any service work or system operation
The status of used cars is less than new cars , less space per vehicle may be allowed but the area must not start to resemble a car park .
Blown No . 10 ( 15 A ) fuse in the main under-hood fuse / relay box
Connect the terminals No . 6 and No . 2 with a jumper wire .
Check the turn signal lights operation .
The left turn signal lights and indicator should come on .
Blown bulb
Poor ground ( G301 , G601 , G701 )
Faulty LED
The right turn signal lights and indicator should come on .
Ignition switch ON ( II ) and turn signal switch in Left position .
Measure the voltage to ground .
Used car spacing – allow approximately 20 sq . m .
There should be about more than 10 V .
Faulty turn signal switch
Faulty combination switch control unit *
Faulty MICU *
Ignition switch ON ( II ) and turn signal switch in Right position .
Hazard warning switch ON
Faulty hazard warning switch
Carefully pull down the roof console and disconnect the 20P connector ( A ) .
Connect the roof console 20P connector terminal No . 3 to battery power and terminal No . 7 to body ground .
TRANSPARENCY INTO THE WORKSHOP
The ambient lights ( B ) should turn on .
If they do not turn on , replace the roof console .
Remove the driver ' s dashboard undercover , then disconnect the 2P connector from the driver ' s ambient light ( A ) .
Turn the bulb socket 45 counterclockwise to remove the bulb .
Install the bulb in the reverse order of removal .
Remove the passenger ' s dashboard undercover , then disconnect the 2P connector from the driver ' s ambient light ( A ) .
Carefully pry out the footwell light lens ( A ) and housing ( B ) .
Footwell Light :
Disconnect the 2P connector from the light .
Check for continuity between the terminals No . 1 ( + ) and No . 2 ( − ) .
The workshop should be so positioned that there is a clear view into most of the work bays from the showroom area allowing customers to watch their cars being serviced .
If there is no continuity , check the bulb .
If the bulb is OK , replace the footwell light .
Remove the glove box stops and damper .
Turn the bulb socket ( A ) 45 counterclockwise to remove it .
Glove Box Light :
Remove the bulb ( B ) from the socket .
If necessary , remove the lens .
Carefully pull down the roof console ( A ) .
Disconnect the 20P connector ( B ) from the roof console .
Check for continuity between the terminals in each interior light switch position according to the table .
The objective of the transparency is to :
Before testing , check the front individual map light bulb ( s ) .
When checking for continuity across the diode , use the diode setting ( ) on the digital volt / ohm meter to check the diode bias .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the roof console as an assembly .
Open the sunvisor .
Remove the sunvisor .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the vanity mirror light .
Vanity Mirror Light :
With the vanity mirror cover ( B ) opened , there should be continuity .
With the vanity mirror cover closed , there should be no continuity .
If the continuity is not as specified , remove the lens and replace the bulb ( D ) or the sunvisor .
Promote the service and maintenance facilities .
Turn the light switch OFF .
Carefully pry off the lens ( A ) with a small screwdriver .
Cargo Area Light :
Remove the two mounting screws .
Disconnect the 3P connector ( B ) from the housing .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 2 and No . 3 with the switch in the MIDDLE position .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 2 and No . 1 with the switch in the ON position .
If the continuity is not as specified , check the bulb ( D ) .
If the bulb is OK , replace the light .
Remove the instrument fascia .
Demonstrate the modern , professional and efficient facility .
Disconnect the 6P connector ( A ) from the dash lights brightness controller ( B ) .
Remove the two screws and the dash lights brightness controller .
There should be continuity when the ILLUMI ( − ) button is pressed .
There should be no continuity when the ILLUMI ( − ) button is released .
There should be continuity when the ILLUMI ( + ) button is pressed .
There should be no continuity when the ILLUMI ( + ) button is released .
If the continuity is as not specified , replace the controller .
Check the LED by connecting battery power to the terminal No . 1 and ground to the terminal No . 2 . The LED should come on .
If the LED does not work ; replace the dash lights brightness controller assembly .
Courtesy Light :
Openly and honestly allow customers to watch their cars being serviced .
Pry out the housing ( B ) from the door , then disconnect the 2P connector .
Remove the bulb ( D ) from the socket .
Remove the steering column upper and lower covers .
Disconnect the 6P connector ( A ) .
The LED ( B ) should come on when power is connected to the terminal No . 6 and ground is connected to terminal No . 5 .
If the LED does not come on , replace the ignition switch .
There should be continuity with the key in the ignition switch .
There should be no continuity with the key removed .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the ignition switch .
Before testing the entry lights control system , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
The workshop window should be in close vicinity to the customer waiting area .
Disconnect under-dash fuse / relay box connectors E , F , G , H , P , Q , and W .
Ignition switch LOCK ( 0 ) and the ignition key removed from the ignition switch
Front passenger ' s door open
Faulty front passenger ' s door switch
Front passenger ' s door closed
Right rear door open
Faulty right rear door switch
Right rear door closed
DIRECT INSPECTION BAY OR AREA
Left rear door open
Faulty left rear door switch
Left rear door closed
( Interior lights switch in DOOR position )
The map and ceiling lights should come on .
Rear Fuse / Relay Box
Disconnect rear fuse / relay box connector B ( 34P ) and C ( 42P ) .
Reconnect the connectors , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and do these input tests at the following connectors .
Ensure that safety guards are always in their proper place during machine operation
Along the primary elevation and in close proximity to the entrance and reception area , there should be at least one bay where an inspection may be carried out with the customer in attendance or watching prior to the car being taken into the workshop for the repair or maintenance .
Tailgate open
Faulty tailgate latch switch
Tailgate closed
Faulty tailgate latch switch
Driver ' s door lock switch in LOCK
Check for continuity :
Faulty driver ' s door lock switch
Driver ' s door lock switch in neutral or UNLOCK
Where possible the back or sides of the bay should open into the rest of the workshop allowing cars to be driven through after the inspection .
Driver ' s door lock switch in UNLOCK
Driver ' s door lock switch in neutral or LOCK
If multiple failures are found on more than one control unit , replace the under-dash fuse / relay box ( includes the MICU ) .
Turn the ceiling light switch OFF .
Rear Map Light :
Check for continuity between the terminals .
RAPID SERVICE FACILITY
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 1 and No . 3 with the left switch ON .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 with the right switch ON .
If the continuity is not as specified , check the bulb ( s ) ( D ) .
If the bulbs are OK , replace the light .
Front Map Light :
Check the bulb ( s ) ( B ) .
If the bulb is OK , but there is a malfunction , check the interior light switch .
Carefully pry out the tailgate light ( A ) .
Tailgate Light :
With the tailgate light switch ON , check for continuity between the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 .
A Rapid Service facility should be reserved for offering customers the possibility of having quick repairs carried out without appointment .
If the bulb is OK , replace the tailgate light .
Check for dirt and debris in the track .
Before testing the moonroof control unit , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
If the moonroof works OK manually , but will not work in AUTO , or reverses frequently ( pinch detection ) do the moonroof calibration before proceeding with the input test .
Close the driver ' s door , and keep it closed until the procedure is complete .
Disconnect the 10P connector ( A ) from the moonroof control unit ( B ) .
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 4 and the under-dash fuse / relay box connector X ( 39P ) terminal No . 15 , and the terminal No . 4 and the front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 4 :
Reconnect the connector , and do these input tests at the following connector .
Blown No . 2 ( OP1 ) ( 40 A ) fuse in the main under-hood fuse box
This will normally be located on the primary elevation , close to the reception , must have its own external vehicle access door and should include a display area for quick service parts such as exhausts , tyres and batteries .
Blown No . 3 * fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box
Moonroof switch in AUTO OPEN or AUTO CLOSE position
Faulty moonroof switch
Moonroof switch in TILT position
Moonroof switch in CLOSE position
Moonroof switch in OPEN position
No . 3 ( 10 A ) :
' 07 model
' 08-09 models
If all the input tests are OK and multiple failures are found , replace the moonroof control unit / motor assembly .
Consequently , customers are encouraged to visit their dealership for minor but quick repairs as well as routine maintenance .
If the problem is related to the key-off operation , go to the driver ' s MPCS unit input test , and front passenger ' s MPCS unit input test .
Do the moonroof control unit reset with all the doors and tailgate closed .
Reset the moonroof after doing any of the following actions .
The moonroof was moved manually with the battery dead or disconnected .
If the moonroof control unit experienced a large voltage drop between fully opened , closed , or tilt positions .
The moonroof motor was replaced with a new one .
Any components related to the moonroof were replaced .
Wind deflector
Moonroof seal
Moonroof glass bracket
This facility encourages customers to their dealership for minor but quick repairs as well as routine maintenance .
Moonroof cables , etc .
To reset the moonroof control unit , do these steps
Close all the doors and the tailgate .
Press and hold the center of the moonroof switch ( tilt ) , and turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
Release the moonroof switch and turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) .
Repeat steps 3 and 4 an additional four times .
Pull and hold the moonroof switch ( open ) an additional 3 seconds after the moonroof is fully opened .
Press and hold the moonroof switch ( close ) an additional 3 seconds after the moonroof is fully closed .
Confirm that the moonroof control unit is reset by using the moonroof AUTO OPEN and AUTO CLOSE function .
Special Tools required
This procedure , which should spot any additional work required , convinces the customer of the necessity of having the work carried out and demonstrates our standing professionalism and thoroughness .
Use the appropriate tool from the KTC trim tool set to avoid damaging components .
Take care not to scratch the roof console and related parts .
The moonroof can still be operated for about 10 minutes after the ignition switch is turned from the II ' ' to the I ' ' or 0 ' ' positions , as long as none of the doors have been opened .
This provides a convenience to parked occupants while offering a degree of security against unwanted or accidental moonroof operation .
Carefully pry the moonroof switch ( A ) out of the roof console .
Disconnect the 7P connector ( B ) from the moonroof switch .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the illumination bulb or the switch .
Install in the reverse order of removal .
The power mirror actuator can be tested by using the Polox system and following these steps :
Select BODY ELECTRICAL from the SYSTEM SELECT menu .
The workshop should be seen as the ‘ showroom ’ for the dealer ’ s service offer , impressing the customers with its facilities , its efficiency and its overall presentation .
Select FUNCTION TEST , and then the appropriate power mirror function test .
Disconnect the 16P connector ( A ) from the power mirror actuator ( B ) .
Check actuator operation by connecting power and ground according to the table .
LEFT
RIGHT
If the mirror fails to work properly , replace the mirror actuator .
Defogger Test
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 of the 16P connector .
There should be about less than 8 .
If there is no continuity , check for an open circuit .
Dealers should be proud to show customers around their workshops and these inspections should be encouraged .
Actuator Replacement
Remove the three TORX screws using a tamperproof T10 TORX bit .
Remove the connectors ( A ) and the actuator ( B ) .
Install the actuator in the reverse order of removal .
Actuator Harness Replacement
Remove the power mirror .
Remove the three TORX screws from the actuator ( A ) using a tamperproof T10 TORX bit .
Remove the three TORX screws from the housing ( B ) using a tamperproof T10 TORX bit .
Disconnect the connectors from the actuator and the side turn signal light .
Remove the gasket and the harness ( D ) from the power mirror .
SFTre loose clothing , neck ties and long hair .
The facilities provided in the workshop must ensure the dealership is capable of meeting the standards of service set by Marketing for Aftersales .
Route the wire harness of the new actuator through the hole in the bracket and the gasket in the reverse order of removal .
Connect the connectors to the actuator and the side turn signal light securely .
Install the actuator , housing and the gasket in the reverse order of removal .
Install the power mirror on the door , and ensure the actuator , mirror defogger , and side turn signal light operation .
Carefully pry the switch panel out from the dashboard .
Disconnect the 10P connector ( A ) from the power mirror switch ( B ) .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the power mirror switch .
Remove the driver ' s airbag assembly .
Disconnect the 20P connector ( A ) from the cable reel .
Measure the resistance between the cable reel 20P connector terminals No . 14 and No . 15 in each multi-information switch position according to the table .
Workbays and general workshop areas should provide sufficient space for technicians to work safely and efficiently without disturbances caused by movement of colleagues or vehicles .
Previous ( )
About 33
Next ( )
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the steering switch assembly .
If the switch is OK , but there is a problem with the switch function , check the cable reel .
Remove the front seat-back cover .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the lumbar support motor .
Test the motor by applying battery power and ground to the terminals .
If the motor does not run or fails to run smoothly , replace it .
Workshop traffic should be minimised so each workbay should be as accessible as possible from the workshop entrance .
Separate the lumbar support switch cover ( A ) from the switch ( B ) .
Disconnect the 6D connector from the switch .
Remove the front passenger ' s power seat .
Remove the power seat adjustment switch ( B ) and disconnect the 12P connector ( A ) from the switch .
At the power seat adjustment switch 12P connector , test the motor by applying battery power and ground to the terminals according to the table .
Slide motor :
Recline motor :
Front up-down motor :
Rear up-down motor :
If the motor does not run or fails to run smoothly , check for an open in the front passenger ' s seat wire harness between the power seat adjustment switch and each motor .
The workshop parts counter should be easily accessible from the workshop whenever possible .
If the wire harness is OK , replace the appropriate motor .
Front Passenger ' s Seat
Remove the power seat adjustment switch knobs and recline cover from the front passenger ' s power seat , then remove the power seat switch .
Disconnect the 12P connector from the power seat adjustment switch ( A ) .
Driver ' s Seat
Disconnect the 4P connector ( A ) and 2P connector ( B ) from the seat heater .
Seat-back
Check for continuity between the seat-back heater 2P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 . There should be continuity .
Seat Cushion
Check for continuity between the seat cushion heater 4P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 , and the terminals No . 1 and No . 3 . There should be continuity .
Dirty personnel traffic from workshop to the showroom or administration areas should be avoided .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the appropriate seat heater .
Remove the front passenger ' s seat .
Disconnect the 4P connector ( A ) from the seat heater .
Check for continuity between the seat heater 4P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 3 , and terminals No . 2 and No . 3 . There should be continuity .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the seat heater .
Second Row Seat
Disconnect the 3P connector ( A ) and 2P connector ( B ) from the seat heater .
Check for continuity between the seat cushion heater 3P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 3 . There should be continuity .
Connect the 2P connector , and check for continuity between the seat cushion heater 3P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 . There should be continuity .
Front Seat Heater
The following facilities and equipment ( which may affect the building ) should be considered :
Disconnect the 6P connector from the seat heater switch ( A ) .
Remove the two screws and the switch .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the illumination bulbs ( B ) or the switch .
Second Row Seat Heater
If the HomeLink will not open the client ' s garage , do the following procedures .
Press any of the buttons on the HomeLink unit .
If the red indicator comes on , go to .
If the red indicator does not come on , go to .
Measure the voltage between the terminals No . 1 ( + ) and No . 2 ( − ) of the roof console 20P connector .
If the voltage is not as specified , check for these problems :
Direct Inspection bay / area .
A blown No . 6 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
A faulty under-dash fuse / relay box .
Poor ground ( G601 ) .
If the voltage is specified , go to .
ensure the Genie remote transmitter ( test remote ) has fresh batteries .
Clear any previously learned codes by pressing and holding the two outside buttons ( A ) on the HomeLink unit ( B ) for about 20 seconds .
When the red indicator on the unit starts blinking , release the buttons .
Point the test remote transmitter ( A ) straight up exactly 4,0 in . ( 101,6 mm ) away from the HomeLink unit ( B ) .
Press and hold the test transmitter button and one of the HomeLink unit buttons simultaneously .
Wait for about 20 seconds while watching the red indicator ( D ) on the HomeLink unit .
Rapid Service bay including display .
If the red indicator starts out blinking slowly and then blinks faster , the unit is OK .
Release the buttons , then clear the learned code ( see ) .
Explain to the client that garage door remote transmitters come in two types :
fixed code and rolling code .
Each type has its own programming method , and each method is covered in the owner ' s manual .
If the client has concerns about the HomeLink unit , have the client contact the HomeLink the assistance desk at 800-355-3515 .
On the internet , go to www . homelink . com .
If the red indicator does not blink , faulty HomeLink unit ; replace the roof console .
General Check before Troubleshooting
Before troubleshooting the immobilizer system , check the following general items to minimize troubleshooting time :
Standard workbays .
If the battery is low ; fully charge the battery , then troubleshoot the immobilizer system .
The ignition key is not a genuine Acura part ; use the Acura-approved key blank , register the key , then troubleshoot the immobilizer system .
Check to see if a key ring , or a key case is used ; remove the immobilizer key from it , and troubleshoot the immobilizer system with the immobilizer key only .
Check to see if an aftermarket electrical part is installed ; remove it , then troubleshoot the immobilizer system .
Symptom Troubleshooting Using the Immobilizer Indicator Lighting Pattern
The blinking pattern of the immobilizer indicator light can help troubleshoot the condition of the immobilizer system .
Following are descriptions of the four possible patterns .
Normal operation
If the immobilizer code is identified , the immobilizer indicator comes on for a maximum of 2 seconds , then goes off after turning the ignition switch ON ( II ) .
The immobilizer indicator does not come on when the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) .
Wash / vehicle preparation facility .
Immobilizer code is not identified
If the immobilizer code is not identified , the immobilizer indicator comes on for a maximum of 2 seconds , then blinks after turning the ignition switch ON ( II ) .
The immobilizer indicator blinks ten times , then goes off when the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) .
Install the seat cushion cover in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
To prevent wrinkles , ensure the material is stretched evenly over the pad before securing all the clips .
The state of the immobilizer key registration and the IMOCD ( S-NET ) line can be checked by doing a SYSTEM CHECK with the Polox system .
Immobilizer indicator does not come on
If the immobilizer indicator does not come on after turning the ignition switch ON ( II ) , an open or short in the F-CAN lines between the PCM and the gauge control module .
Watch the malfunction indicator lamp ( MIL ) .
If the MIL stays on , go to the PGM-FI system troubleshooting .
Remove such items as rings , necklaces , bracelets and wrist-watches to avoid engagement with moving parts .
Electrical work bay .
Immobilizer indicator does not go off
If the immobilizer indicator does not go off after turning the ignition switch ON ( II ) , do the gauge control module self-diagnostic function .
If the indicator drive circuit is OK , do the SYSTEM CHECK with the Polox system .
Symptom Troubleshooting Using Malfunctioning Circuit Functions
If a malfunction occurs in the immobilizer circuit , use the table to cross-reference the malfunctioning function to the line ( s ) that should be checked in the table :
System Check and Status Log
the Polox system can be used to :
Check the state of the immobilizer key registration and the IMOCD ( S-NET ) line by doing a SYSTEM CHECK .
Check the number of times the immobilizer control unit-receiver doesn ' t permit the engine to run by checking the STATUS LOG .
Troubleshoot the line with the highest count first .
Engine repair area ( generally concealed ) .
Connect the Polox system to the data link connector , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) and follow the prompts to the MAIN MENU .
If the Polox system does not communicate with the vehicle , go to the XTF circuit troubleshooting .
At the MAIN MENU , enter IMMOBILIZER , then select the IMMOBILIZER SETUP .
Do the SYSTEM CHECK .
If there is a system check number , do the troubleshooting for the item indicated .
Check the status log using the Polox system .
Troubleshoot the line with the highest counts .
If all the lines are 0 ' ' zero , the problem may not be caused by the immobilizer system , check for ignition or fuel problems .
Once repaired , clear the status log by removing the No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse box or disconnecting the immobilizer control unit-receiver .
The car is equipped with an immobilizer system that will disable the vehicle unless a programmed ignition key is used .
Work bay ( s ) for the LCV and trucks .
This system consists of a transponder , a keyless transmitter , immobilizer-keyless control unit , immobilizer indicator , imoes unit ( built into the MICU ) , and the PCM .
When the immobilizer key ( programmed by the Polox system ) is inserted into the ignition switch and turned to the ON ( II ) position , the immobilizer-keyless control unit sends power to the transponder in the ignition key .
The transponder then sends a coded signal back to the immobilizer-keyless control unit , which then sends a coded signal to the imoes unit , which confirms the code and signals the PCM to continue to supply power to the fuel pump circuit .
If the wrong key has been used or the code was not received or recognized by the unit , the vehicle will not start , then shut off , and the indicator will quickly flash once , then it will blink until the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) .
When the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) , the indicator will blink ten times to signal that the unit has reset correctly , then the indicator will go off .
Troubleshoot the immobilizer system in the order shown :
Order of Priority
Possible cause
Immobilizer indicator blinks after the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) .
Symptom troubleshooting .
Vehicle lifts .
Engine does not start with the programmed immobilizer key .
Immobilizer indicator does not come on .
Check the MIL indication .
If the MIL comes on , go to the PGM-FI System MIL circuit troubleshooting .
If the MIL does not come on , replace the gauge control module .
Immobilizer indicator does not go off .
Immobilizer indicator blinks
Before troubleshooting , check the items listed in General Check before Troubleshooting ' ' .
Enter the IMMOBILIZER , then select the IMMOBILIZER SETUP .
Check the SYSTEM CHECK and STATUS LOG information .
Inspection pit .
Is the SYSTEM CHECK indicated ?
Troubleshoot the immobilizer system according to the result of the SYSTEM CHECK / STATUS LOG .
Enter the vehicle , and remove the ignition key from the ignition switch , then close the all doors .
Operate the keyless transmitter LOCK and UNLOCK several times in the vehicle .
Do the door lock actuators work normally ?
Check for a poor ground ( G101 ) and / or an open in the wire between the immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector terminal No . 7 and PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminal No . 41 .
Measure the voltage between the immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector terminal No . 2 and body ground .
Check No . 19 ( 20 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box or for an open in the BRN wire between the under-dash fuse-relay box and the immobilizer-keyless control unit .
Is there less than 0,5 V ?
Replace the immobilizer-keyless control unit .
Brake test bench .
Check for a poor ground ( G101 ) and / or repair poor connection or open between the immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector terminal No . 7 and PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminal No . 41 .
Engine does not start with the immobilizer key
Before troubleshooting , check the items listed in General Check before Troubleshooting ' ' and How to Troubleshoot ' ' .
Try to start the engine .
Does the engine start ?
Intermittent failure , the vehicle is OK at this time .
Check status log .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and check the immobilizer indicator indication .
Does the indicator quickly flash twice and turn off ?
Do the immobilizer-keyless control unit input test .
Shock absorber test bench .
Turn the ignition switch to START ( III ) .
Does the starter crank the engine ?
Go to Starting System troubleshooting and check the starter motor circuit .
Try to start the engine with a different known-good immobilizer key ( previously programmed and known to start the vehicle ) .
Replace the immobilizer key .
Go to the PGM-FI System Symptom Troubleshooting .
Enter the IMMOBILIZER , then select the IMMOBILIZER INFORMATION .
Do the SYSTEM CHECK with the Polox system .
Is N-1 OK indicated ?
Do the gauge control module self-test .
Wheel alignment equipment .
If the gauge control module is faulty , replace it .
Substitute a known-good immobilizer-keyless control unit , then register it and recheck .
If the symptom goes away , replace the original immobilizer-keyless control unit .
Monitor the SYSTEM CHECK in the IMMOBILIZER INFO with the Polox system .
If the Polox system displays the IMMOBILIZER SYSTEM IS NORMAL ' ' , the immobilizer system is fine .
If the Polox system displays any other messages , check as follows :
Status Log No .
System Check
Possible Failures
Immobilizer system is not normal
Waste and environmental disposal areas .
This key is not registered in the immobilizer-keyless control unit .
Try to register keys by using KEYS ' ' .
The communication was not good between the antenna and the immobilizer key by influence of metal such as key chains .
The communication was not good between the antenna and the immobilizer key by battery voltage low .
Intermittent interruption between transponder and immobilizer-keyless control unit .
The immobilizer key type is different .
It is not for this vehicle but for another one or for other company ' s one .
Key failure ( transponder failure )
The ignition switch was turned ON ( II ) with a non-immobilizer key .
Immobilizer-keyless control unit failure
Workshop plant room .
The PCM was not registered .
Try to register the PCM by using REPLACE PCM ' ' .
The communication was not good between the PCM and the immobilizer-keyless control unit by battery voltage low .
The communication was not good between the immobilizer-keyless control unit and the PCM by influence of some noise .
Harness short from the PCM to the immobilizer-keyless control unit .
( IMOCD / S-NET line short )
PCM failure
Blown fuse
Harness open from the immobilizer control unit-receiver and the imoes unit .
Never operate solenoid valves or limit switches by hand .
Workshop administration area .
The communication was not good between the immobilizer control unit-receiver and the imoes unit by influence of some noise .
Harness open from the PCM to the immobilizer-keyless control unit .
If you suspect there is a immobilizer system problem , check the status log in the Polox system .
On the overhead screen , select Start / Systems , select immobilizer set-up , then select status log .
Audio unit
Check the Status log count .
Troubleshoot the status with the highest count first .
If no counts are listed , the immobilizer system is fine .
Carry on with normal symptom troubleshooting .
Detected Item
Technical manual library .
Probable Cause
KEY CODE MISMATCH ( Code format normal , but code data is mismatch )
The key was not registered
Interference from metal such as key chains
Low battery voltage
KEY CODE MISMATCH ( Code format failure )
Ignition switch was turned ON ( II ) with another type of immobilizer key or aftermarket key
KEY CODE MISMATCH ( No key code or non-immobilizer key )
Key failure
PCM CODE MISMATCH ( Code format normal , but code data is mismatch )
General stores ( equipment , tools , cleaning materials etc . ) .
PCM was not registered correctly
Poor or loose terminal connections at the immobilizer-keyless control unit
Communication line electrical noise
PCM MISMATCH ( Code format failure )
IMOCD / S-NET LINE PROBLEM ( Short to ground )
Poor or loose terminal connections at the immobilizer-keyless control unit and the PCM
IMOCD / S-NET LINE PROBLEM ( Open line or PCM / immobilizer control unit-receiver failure )
Open or short in the harness from the PCM to the immobilizer-keyless control unit
the Polox system is required for registration of the immobilizer keys .
Check for aftermarket electrical equipment that can cause problems with transponder operation .
Dangerous materials store .
The immobilizer-keyless control unit can store up to six immobilizer keys .
Add one new key
Have a registered key , a new immobilizer key , and the first password from the iN system .
Select IMMOBILIZER ' ' from the SYSTEM SELECT ' ' menu .
Select Add and Delete Keys ' ' , then Add 1 key ' ' .
Do the registration according to the instructions on the Polox system screen .
Check if the engine can be started with the newly registered key .
Check the keyless remote operation to ensure that it functions properly .
Delete or add multiple keys
If any of the registered keys were lost , do the following procedure to delete the lost registered key .
Body shop facilities .
When deleting keys , it is necessary to delete all stored remote transmitters .
Refer to the keyless transmitter programming to delete and reprogram the remotes .
Have all registered keys , all new keys , and the first password .
Select Add and Delete Keys ' ' , or Delete or Add Multiple Keys ' ' .
Do the registration according to the instruction of HDS screen .
Check if the engine can be started with all the registered keys .
All keys are lost
Prepare all new keys and have the immobilizer PCM code .
Select Add and Delete Keys ' ' , then ALL KEYS LOST ' ' .
Before testing the immobilizer-keyless control unit , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A and check the No . 19 ( 20 A ) and No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuses in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
For both the workshop and the Parts & Accessories retailing operation to work successfully the parts warehouse must be carefully laid out .
Disconnect the 7P connector ( A ) from the immobilizer-keyless control unit ( B ) .
Immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , the PCM connector A ( 49P ) , and the under-dash fuse / relay box connector Q ( 14P ) disconnected .
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 3 and the PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminal No . 46 :
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 3 and under-dash fuse / relay box connector Q ( 14P ) terminal No . 9 :
Check for continuity to body ground :
Your 25HP engine is designed to use only unleaded gasoline , although it may be converted to a hybrid from 2010 .
Immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , the under-dash fuse / relay box connector X ( 39P ) disconnected .
The parts warehouse staff have responsibility for :
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 4 and under-dash fuse / relay box connector X ( 39P ) terminal No . 27 :
Immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector disconnected .
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 5 and the data link connector ( 16P ) terminal No . 7 :
Reconnect the connector to the immobilizer-keyless control unit , and do these input tests at the following connector .
If all the input tests prove OK , the immobilizer-keyless control unit must be faulty ; replace it .
Measure the voltage to body ground :
Retail customers .
All registered keys are necessary for replacement of the immobilizer-keyless control unit .
Remove the two screws and the immobilizer-keyless control unit from the ignition key cylinder .
Install the immobilizer-keyless control unit in the reverse order of removal .
After replacement , turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
Select IMMOBI ' ' from the System Select ' ' menu .
Select Immobilizer Setup ' ' from the Mode Menu ' ' .
Select Replace Imm Unit ' ' .
Operate according to instructions of a screen of HDS .
After HDS operation , check the immobilizer system .
Workshop technicians .
Verify the operation of every key and remote transmitter .
The security alarm system is integrated with the multiplex integrated control system .
For the system to arm , the ignition switch must be in the LOCK ( 0 ) position , the key must be removed , and the MICU must receive signals that the doors , hood , and tailgate are closed and locked .
The alarm can be armed or disarmed at any time by locking or unlocking the driver ' s door with the key or pressing the LOCK / UNLOCK button on the transmitter , the alarm can also be armed by locking ( with the lock knob ) then closing the driver ' s door .
When everything is closed and locked , the only inputs that are grounded , and have 0 V , are the driver ' s door lock knob switch ( LOCK position ) , and the audio unit .
In other words , all of the other switches are open , and have about 5,0 V in sleep mode or 12 V in awake mode , including the key cylinder switches .
The security indicator in the gauge control module begins to flash immediately after the doors , tailgate , and hood are closed and locked , and then , after 20 seconds , the flashing intervals of the security indicator change to indicate that the alarm is fully armed .
If the security indicator does not flash , the system is not arming .
If the LOCK button is pressed a second time within 5 seconds ( Keyless LOCK acknowledgement is turned ON ) and the vehicle is completely closed and locked , a beep sounds and parking lights flash one time to confirm the security alarm system is armed .
If one of the switches is misadjusted or shorted internally ( 0 V ) , or there is a short in the circuit ( 0 V ) , the security system will not arm .
Trade customers .
A switch that is slightly misadjusted can cause the alarm to sound for no apparent reason .
In this case , a significant change in outside air temperature , the vibration of a passing vehicle , or something bumping into the vehicle could cause the alarm to sound .
There is no glass breakage or motion detector feature .
If anything is opened or improperly unlocked after the system is armed , the control unit receives a ground signal from that switch , the 5 − 12 V reference drops to 0 V , and the system sounds the alarm .
If the audio unit is disconnected , the input loses its ground , and the input voltage goes to 5 − 12 V , and the system sounds the alarm .
The system sounds the alarm when any of following occur while the security system is armed :
A door or the tailgate is forced open
A door is unlocked without using the key or the transmitter
The hood is opened
The audio unit ( or navigation unit , rear controller and screen ) is disconnected
This practice can cause dangerous , unexpected machine movements .
Deliveries and supplies .
The transmitter panic is operated
The ignition switch is turned ON ( II )
When the system sounds the alarm , the horns sound and the exterior lights flash for 2 minutes .
The alarm can be stopped at any time by unlocking the driver ' s door with the key or by pressing any button on the transmitter .
Panic Mode
The panic mode sounds the alarm in order to attract attention .
When the PANIC button on the transmitter is pressed and held for about 2 seconds , the alarm sounds and the exterior lights flash for about 20 seconds .
The panic mode can be cancelled at anytime by pressing any button on the remote or by turning the ignition switch ON ( II ) .
The panic mode will not function if the ignition switch is in ON ( II ) .
Keyless Entry System
Where possible different counters should be provided for :
The keyless entry system is integrated with the multiplex integrated control system .
Transmitters 1 and 2 ( Identified on the back of each transmitter ) are linked to the DPMS , the climate control settings , the custom memory settings ( in the MID ) , the audio , the navigation and the illumination settings .
Depending on which transmitter unlocks the vehicle , these settings are chosen .
Some functions of the security , keyless entry , and power door locks can be customized using the MID keyless memory setting .
They include :
AUTO DOOR LOCK :
Door locking can be turned off , or turned on when shifting from Park or at a speed above 15 mph .
AUTO DOOR UNLOCK :
Door unlocking can be turned off , or turned on when shifting to Park or turning the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) .
WHENEVER UNLOCKING :
retail customers as part of the combined reception ; for trade customers with its own separate entrance ; and for the workshop technicians .
Door unlocking can be set to unlock all doors or only the driver ' s door on the first push .
KEYLESS DOOR LOCK ACKNOWLEDGEMENT :
The beep and the front parking lights can be turned on or off when pressing the LOCK / UNLOCK button on the remote .
SFTRITY RELOCK TIMER :
Select the time ( 30 , 60 , or 90 sec . ) that the doors relock if you unlock the doors with the remote , but do not open any of them .
HEADLIGHT AUTO OFF TIMER :
Select time ( 0 , 15 , 30 , or 60 sec . ) to turn the headlights off after removing the key from the ignition opening , then closing the driver ' s door .
AUTO LIGHT SENSITIVITY :
Automatic lighting sensor sensitivity can be adjusted five steps ( MIN / LOW / MID / HIGH / MAX ) .
INTERIOR LIGHT DIMMING TIMER :
However it is important that these three counters are effectively staffed and function efficiently .
Select the dimming time ( 15 , 30 , or 60 sec . ) of the interior lights after closing the door with the key removed from the ignition .
METER SETUP :
Language-English / French / Espanol
Outside air temperature- + 5 + 4 + 3 + 2 + 1 0 − 1 − 2 − 3 − 4 − 5
Trip A an average Fuel Reset w / fill-ON / OFF
Adjust alarm volume-HIGH / MID / LOW
Elapsed time reset-manually only , IGN OFF , Trip A , Trip B
Auto interior illumination-MAX MID LOW MIN OFF
POSITION SETUP :
Memory position link ON / OFF
The warehouse should ensure easy access for all items before being categorized into fast and slow movers and stored accordingly .
Auto tilt telescope steering wheel ON / OFF
If either of these functions are turned off , they will not function with a linked remote .
LIGHTING SETUP :
Interior light dimming time ( 15 , 30 , 60 sec . )
Headlight auto OFF timer ( 0 , 15 , 30 , 60 sec . )
Auto light sensitivity MAX HIGH MID LOW MIN
DOOR WINDOW SETUP :
Auto door lock-Shift from park with vehicle speed ON or OFF-Driver ' s door / All doors
Auto door unlock-Shift to park with ignition ON or OFF-Driver ' s door / All doors
Key and remote unlock mode-Driver ' s door / All doors
Specific areas should be allocated to both goclip-in and goclip-out .
Keyless lock acknowledgement-ON / OFF
SFTrity relock timer ( 90 , 60 , 30 , sec )
WIPER SETUP :
Wiper action intermittent / with speed
The transmitters can be linked and unlinked to the keyless memory settings by pressing the LOCK and UNLOCK buttons at the same time for about 1 second .
The LED on the transmitter blinks twice when unlinked , and once when linked .
The keyless entry system allows you to lock and unlock the vehicle with the transmitter .
When you press the LOCK button , all the doors lock ( unless any one of the doors is not fully closed or the key is in the ignition switch ) .
When you press the UNLOCK button the first time , only the driver ' s door unlocks , if keyless memory setting WHENEVER UNLOCKING ' ' is set to Driver ' s Door .
The other doors unlock when you press the UNLOCK button a second time .
Similar to the workshop the warehouse should be bright and clean .
All the doors unlock when you press the UNLOCK button the first time if keyless memory setting WHENEVER UNLOCKING ' ' is set to All Doors .
The doors will not lock with the transmitter if a door is not fully closed , or if the ignition key is in the ignition switch .
If the UNLOCK button is pressed , released , then pressed and held , the windows and the moonroof begin to open .
The windows and the moonroof stop if the button is released .
The windows and moonroof cannot be closed with the remote .
See power windows for more information and troubleshooting .
When the interior lights switch is in the DOOR ' ' position , the individual map lights will come on when the UNLOCK button is pressed .
If a door is not opened , the lights will go off in about 30 , 60 , or 90 seconds ( depending on the keyless memory setting SFTRITY RELOCK TIMER ' ' ) , and the doors will relock .
If the doors are locked with the transmitter within 30 seconds , the lights will go off immediately .
Keyless operation does not work ( LOCK , UNLOCK , PANIC )
Ease of cleaning and routine maintenance must be considered in addition to the daily disposal of rubbish .
Before troubleshooting , check the B-CAN DTCs .
If any DTC is indicated , troubleshoot the indicated DTC first .
Before troubleshooting , do the keyless transmitter test .
The immobilizer system is fine , go to .
Go to the immobilizer symptom troubleshooting .
Close all doors , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
Enter the BODY ELECTRICAL menu , and check the door switch parameters .
Do all door switches indicate OFF ?
Faulty door switch , or shorted door switch wire .
Repair as necessary .
The warehouse staff must be able to ensure that all their customers will receive prompt service and a system should be developed that prioritises demand and allows additional resources to be allocated at peak times .
Remove the ignition key from the ignition switch .
If the fuse is blown , replace the fuse and repair a short to ground in the wire .
If the fuse is OK , repair open in the wire .
Disconnect the ignition key switch 6P connector .
At the ignition key switch side , check for continuity between the ignition key switch 6P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 .
Faulty ignition key switch or short to ground , replace the steering lock assembly .
Insert the ignition key into the ignition switch .
At the ignition key switch side , check for continuity between the ignition key switch 6P connector terminals terminals No . 1 and No . 2 .
Faulty ignition key switch , replace the steering lock assembly .
Disconnect the immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector .
The dealer should discuss his overall strategy for parts with the distributor then base his parts operation on a clear strategy .
Check for continuity between the immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector terminal No . 6 and the ignition key switch 6P connector terminal No . 1 .
Repair an open in the wire .
Check for continuity between the immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector terminal No . 6 and body ground .
Repair a short to ground in the wire .
Doors will not unlock ( or lock ) with the transmitter , but will unlock ( lock ) with the door switch
Close and lock the doors .
Try to lock / unlock the doors with the keyless transmitter .
Open the driver ' s door .
Does the key-in reminder chime sound ?
Clamp position
1.6 GENERAL SAFETY ( Contd . )
Consider :
Faulty ignition key switch , or short to ground on the ignition key switch PNK wire .
Do the transmitter test .
Is the transmitter OK ?
Substitute a known-good MICU and recheck .
Replace the transmitter .
The horn does not sound and / or the headlights do not flash when the PANIC button on the transmitter is pressed
Press the PANIC button .
Does the horn sound ?
Press the horn button .
Do the horns sound ?
Delivery Area .
Check the horn circuit .
Turn the headlight switch ON .
Do the headlights come on ?
Check the lighting circuit .
Doors automatically relock 30 , 60 , or 90 seconds after being unlocked with the transmitter even though a door has been opened
Turn the ceiling light switch to the DOOR position .
Close all doors .
Watch the ceiling light and the door indicator on the gauge control module .
Does the ceiling light and door indicator go off ?
Repair short to ground in the wire between the MICU and door switch .
Unpacking Area .
Open and close each door one at a time .
Does the ceiling light and door indicator come on when the door is open , and go off when the door is closed ?
Substitute a known-good MICU and recheck .
If the symptom goes away , replace the original MICU .
Check for open in the wire between the MICU and the door switch .
If the wire is OK , replace the door switch .
Power Door Locks / Keyless
If the door lock system works properly , but the vehicle does not start , refer to the immobilizer-keyless control unit symptom troubleshooting information .
All functions work with the key out of the ignition switch .
Only the panic function will work with the key in the ignition switch and in the LOCK ( 0 ) position .
Disposals and returns area .
There is no keyless function with the ignition turned ON ( II ) .
Check Items
The doors will not lock or unlock * .
MICU input test
Driver ' s door key cylinder switch test
Door lock switch test
Door lock knob switch test
The doors will not lock * .
Driver ' s door switch test ( check the door switch ON / OFF information with the Polox system )
The doors will not unlock * .
Administration area .
Driver ' s door lock knob switch test
Keyless operation does not work ( LOCK , UNLOCK , PANIC ) .
Doors will not unlock with the transmitter , but will unlock with the door switch .
Doors will not lock with the transmitter , but will lock with the door switch .
Doors automatically relock 30 , 60 , or 90 seconds after being unlocked with the transmitter even though a door has been opened .
Driver ' s door switch test .
The horn does not sound and / or the headlights do not flash when the PANIC button on the transmitter is pressed .
Keyless lock or unlock operation will work even though the ignition key is in the ignition switch .
Ignition key switch test .
If only one door is not working properly , check that door ' s lock actuator first , then check the other items listed in this table .
Staffing and customer service .
Disconnect the 10P connector ( A ) from the key cylinder switch ( B ) .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 9 and No . 5 when the door key cylinder switch is in LOCK position .
There should be no continuity between the terminals No . 9 and No . 5 when the door key cylinder switch is in the neutral or UNLOCK position .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 8 and No . 5 when the door key cylinder switch is in UNLOCK position .
There should be no continuity between the terminals No . 8 and No . 5 when the door key cylinder switch is in the neutral or LOCK position .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the door key cylinder assembly .
Driver ' s Door and Left Rear Door
Disconnect the 10P connector ( A ) from the actuator ( B ) .
The illustration shows the driver ' s door .
To prevent damage to the actuator , apply battery voltage only momentarily .
Fast and slow moving parts .
If the actuator does not operate as specified , replace it .
Front Passenger ' s Door and Right Rear Door
The illustration shows the front passenger ' s door .
Driver ' s Door
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 6 and No . 5 when the door lock knob switch is in the LOCK position and no continuity when the switch is in the UNLOCK position .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 7 and No . 5 when the door lock knob switch is in the UNLOCK position and no continuity when the switch is in the LOCK position .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the door lock actuator .
Passenger Doors
Remove the passenger ' s door panel .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 8 [ No . 7 ] and No . 10 [ No . 5 ] when the door lock knob switch in the UNLOCK position and no continuity when the switch is in the LOCK position .
TECHNICIANS WELFARE FACILITIES
Left rear door
If the continuity is not specified , replace the door lock actuator .
Disconnect the 6D connector ( A ) , remove the two screws , then remove the door lock switch ( B ) .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 5 and No . 4 when the door lock switch is in the LOCK position .
There should be no continuity between the terminals No . 5 and No . 4 when the door lock switch is in the neutral position or UNLOCK position .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 5 and No . 3 when the door lock switch is in the UNLOCK position .
There should be no continuity between the terminals No . 5 and No . 3 when the door lock switch is in the neutral position or LOCK position .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 2 ( + ) and No . 1 ( − ) ( bulb check ) .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the bulb or switch .
Open the hood .
It is important for staff retention and high performance reasons to provide good facilities for the workshop personnel .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the hood switch ( B ) .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 when the hood is opened ( latch released ) .
There should be no continuity between the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 when the hood is closed ( latch pushed down ) .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the hood latch .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the keyless buzzer ( B ) .
Test the buzzer by connecting battery power to the terminal No . 1 and ground to the terminal No . 2 .
The buzzer should sound .
If the buzzer does not sound , replace it .
Install the buzzer in the reverse order of removal .
If the doors unlock or lock with the transmitter , but the LED on the transmitter does not come on , the LED is faulty ; replace the transmitter .
Although these facilities should be shared with other staff at the dealership the technicians must be able to change and wash at the dealership .
If any door is open , you cannot lock the doors with the transmitter .
If you unlocked the doors with the transmitter , but do not open any of the doors within 30 , 60 , or 90 seconds , the doors relock automatically .
The lock or unlock does not work with the transmitter if the ignition key is inserted in the ignition switch .
With HDS
Press the lock or unlock button five or six times to reset the transmitter .
If the locks work , the transmitter is OK .
If any of the transmitter buttons does not work , replace the transmitter , then register the transmitter .
If the locks don ' t work , go to .
Select KEYLESS from the BODY ELECTRICAL menu , then enter the KEYLESS CHECK .
Press lock , unlock , trunk , or panic button and check the response on the screen of the Polox system .
Do not climb over equipment at any point .
Facilities should include :
The door lock actuators may or may not cycle when receiving input from the transmitter .
If KEYLESS ENTRY TRANSMITTER CODE IS RECEIVED is indicated , the transmitter is OK .
If DIFFERENT KEYLESS ENTRY TRANSMITTER CODE IS RECEIVED is indicated , the transmitter is not registered to the vehicle .
If necessary , register the transmitter .
If KEYLESS ENTRY TRANSMITTER CODE IS NOT RECEIVED is indicated , go to .
Remove the transmitter cover ( A ) from the transmitter ( B ) , and check for water damage .
If you find any water damage , replace the transmitter , then register it .
If there is no water damage , go to .
Replace the transmitter battery ( A ) with a new one , and press lock or unlock button and check the receive condition on the screen of the Polox system .
Use a different known-good keyless transmitter assembly and repeat and 4 .
Staff toilets .
The keyless transmitter does not need to be programmed to the vehicle for this test .
If DIFFERENT KEYLESS ENTRY TRANSMITTER CODE IS RECEIVED is indicated , replace the keyless transmitter and do the immobilizer system registration .
If KEYLESS ENTRY TRANSMITTER CODE IS NOT RECEIVED is indicated , the immobilizer-keyless control unit is faulty , replace it and do the immobilizer system registration .
Without HDS
If the engine does not start , go to the immobilizer system troubleshooting .
If the engine starts , go to .
If you find any water damage , replace the transmitter .
Replace the transmitter battery ( A ) with a new one , and try to lock and unlock the doors with the transmitter by pressing the lock or unlock button five or six times .
If the doors lock and unlock , the transmitter is OK .
If the doors don ' t lock and unlock , the Polox system will be required for further diagnosis .
Changing room facilities with lockers .
Before testing the keyless / power door locks / sFTrity system control unit , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN system Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Disconnect under-dash fuse / relay box connectors E , F , H , K , N , Q , and P .
Connect battery power to the E2 ( E8 ) terminal , and the E8 ( E2 ) terminal to body ground .
Check actuator operation :
The left and right rear door lock actuators should LOCK ( UNLOCK ) .
Faulty left rear door lock actuator
Faulty right rear door lock actuator
Comprehensive washing facilities .
Connect battery power to the K12 ( K2 ) terminal , and the K2 ( K12 ) terminal to body ground .
The driver ' s door lock actuator should LOCK ( UNLOCK ) .
Faulty driver ' s door lock actuator
Connect battery power to the N7 ( N9 ) terminal , and the N9 ( N7 ) terminal to body ground .
The front passenger ' s door lock actuator should LOCK ( UNLOCK ) .
Faulty front passenger ' s door lock actuator
Connect battery power to the F5 terminal .
Canteen / rest room .
Check tailgate release actuator operation :
The tailgate should open .
Faulty tailgate release actuator
Reconnect the remaining connectors , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and do these input tests at the following connectors .
Faulty connection at the audio unit , navigation unit , and / or rear controller and screen
Faulty audio unit
Faulty navigation unit
Faulty rear controller and screen
Transmission range switch in P position
Transmission range switch in any other position than P
Emergency and first aid store .
Faulty transmission range switch
Connect battery power to the C23 terminal momentarily .
Check keyless buzzer operation :
The keyless buzzer should sound .
Faulty keyless buzzer
Poor ground ( G702 ) * 2 ( G603 ) * 3
Tailgate outer handle pulled
Faulty tailgate outer handle switch
Tailgate outer handle released
Check for continuity between the A8 terminal and the front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 4 :
ADMINISTRATION AREAS
Check for continuity between the terminals :
A short to ground in the wire .
Connect the A7 and A27 terminals , and A4 and A5 terminals with jumper wires
Check the driver ' s door lock switch lights :
The switch light should come on .
Driver ' s door lock knob switch in UNLOCK
Faulty driver ' s door lock knob switch
Although admin areas are not customer facing , we should percolate into these areas in terms of complementary aesthetics irrespective of styles , colours and materials providing a good quality , comfortable and transparent working environment .
Driver ' s door lock knob switch in LOCK
Driver ' s door key cylinder switch in UNLOCK
Faulty driver ' s door key cylinder switch
Driver ' s door key cylinder switch in neutral or LOCK
Driver ' s door key cylinder switch in LOCK
Left rear door lock knob switch in UNLOCK
TYPICAL PLAN LAYOUTS IN VALENCIA
Faulty left rear door lock knob switch
Left rear door lock knob switch in LOCK
Disconnect front passenger ' s MPCS unit connectors A ( 28P ) and B ( 14P ) .
Check for continuity between the A4 terminal and the driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 8 :
Front passenger ' s door lock switch in LOCK
Faulty front passenger ' s door lock switch
Front passenger ' s door lock switch in neutral or UNLOCK
Buildings - Layout - Revision 2
Front passenger ' s door lock switch in UNLOCK
Front passenger ' s door lock switch in neutral or LOCK
Connect the A2 and A20 terminals , and A1 and A7 terminals with jumper wires
Check the front passenger ' s door lock switch lights :
Front passenger ' s door lock knob switch in UNLOCK
Faulty front passenger ' s door lock knob switch
Front passenger ' s door lock knob switch in LOCK
Use proper stairways and platforms provided .
PROPOSED GROUND FLOOR PLAN
Right rear door lock knob switch in UNLOCK
Faulty right rear door lock knob switch
Right rear door lock knob switch in LOCK
Tips and Precautions
Before Troubleshooting
Check applicable fuses in the appropriate fuse / relay box .
Check the battery for damage , state of charge , and clean and tight connections .
Do not quick-charge a battery unless the battery ground cable has been disconnected , otherwise you will damage the alternator diodes .
Do not attempt to crank the engine with the battery ground cable loosely connected or you will severely damage the wiring .
Customer Entrance
Handling Connectors
ensure the connectors are clean and have no loose wire terminals .
ensure multiple cavity connectors are packed with dielectric grease ( except watertight connectors ) .
All connectors have push-down release type locks ( A ) .
Some connectors have a clip on their side used to attach them to a mount bracket on the body or on another component .
This clip has a pull type lock .
Some mounted connectors cannot be disconnected unless you first release the lock and remove the connector from its mount bracket ( A ) .
Never try to disconnect connectors by pulling on their wires ; pull on the connector halves instead .
Always reinstall plastic covers .
Before connecting connectors , ensure the terminals ( A ) are in place and not bent .
Commercial Vehicles
Check for loose retainers ( A ) and rubber seals ( B ) .
The backs of some connectors are packed with dielectric grease .
Add grease if necessary .
If the grease is contaminated , replace it .
Insert the connector all the way and ensure it is securely locked .
Position wires so that the open end of the cover faces down .
Handling Wires and Harnesses
SFTre wires and wire harnesses to the frame with their respective wire ties at the designated locations .
Remove clips carefully ; don ' t damage their locks ( A ) .
After installing harness clips , ensure the harness doesn ' t interfere with any moving parts .
Sales Desk
Keep wire harnesses away from exhaust components and other hot parts , from sharp edges of brackets and holes , and from exposed screws and bolts .
Seat grommets in their grooves properly ( A ) .
Do not leave grommets distorted ( B ) .
Testing and Repairs
Do not use wires or harnesses with broken insulation .
Replace them or repair them by wrapping the break with electrical tape .
Never attempt to modify , splice , or repair SRS wiring .
If there is an open or damage is SRS wiring or terminals , replace the harness .
After installing parts , ensure that no wires are pinched under them .
When using electrical test equipment , follow the manufacturer ' s instructions and those described in this manual .
Meeting Room
If possible , insert the probe of the tester from the wire side ( except waterproof connector ) .
Use back probe adaptor 07TAZ-001020A .
For specific operations , refer to the user ' s manual that came with the Diagnostic System Tool .
Five-step Troubleshooting
Verify The Complaint :
Turn on all the components in the problem circuit to verify the client complaint .
Note the symptoms .
Do not begin disassembly or testing until you have narrowed down the problem area .
Analyze The Schematic :
Look up the schematic for the problem circuit .
( Low units )
Determine how the circuit is supposed to work by tracing the current paths from the power feed through the circuit components to ground .
If several circuits fail simultaneously , the fuse or a ground is a likely cause .
Based on the symptoms and your understanding of the circuit operation , identify one or more possible causes of the problem .
Isolate The Problem By Testing The Circuit :
Make circuit tests to check the diagnosis you made in .
Keep in mind that a logical , simple procedure is the key to efficient troubleshooting .
Test for the most likely cause of failure first .
Try to make tests at points that are easily accessible .
Fix The Problem :
Once the specific problem is identified , make the repair .
Be sure to use proper tools and safe procedures .
ensure The Circuit Works :
Turn on all components in the repaired circuit in all modes to ensure you ' ve fixed the entire problem .
If the problem was a blown fuse , be sure to test all of the circuits on the fuse .
ensure no new problems turn up and the original problem does not recur .
Wire Color Codes
The following abbreviations are used to identify wire colors in the circuit schematics :
Showroom
Up
The wire insulation has one color or one color with another color stripe .
The second color is the stripe .
Refer to the instructions in the Terminal Kit for identification and replacement of connector terminals .
Check our website for more service information about the navigation system .
Connect the Polox system to the data link connector ( A ) located under the driver ' s side of the dashboard .
Turn the ignition switch ON ( II ) .
ensure the Polox system communicates with the vehicle , if it doesn ' t , troubleshoot the XTF circuit .
Enter the BODY ELECTRICAL then select the TEST MODE menu .
If any DTCs are indicated , note them , and go to the indicated DTC troubleshooting .
A battery can explode if you do not follow the proper procedure , causing serious injury to anyone nearby .
Wheel Display
Follow all procedures carefully , and keep sparks and open flames away from the battery .
Required Test Equipment
Ordering Information
To order an Electrical System Analyzer , go to the Acura Tool and Equipment catalog on the iN , or call 888-424-6857 .
Software Version
ensure you have the latest software in the ED-18 .
To check the version on the ED-18 do this :
Press the POWER button .
Select Reports , then press ENTER .
If not provided , report this to your supervisor and / or safety department .
Soft Seating Colour & Trim
Select i Version , then press ENTER .
If you do not have the correct version , call the Tools Hotline at 800-346-6327 .
Using the ED-18 Battery Tester
For set up , customization , and other available features , refer to the ED-18 user ' s manual .
Connect the leads to the positive and negative terminal of the battery .
Use the arrow keys to select the battery test , then press Enter , then follow the prompts .
ensure to enter the correct cold cranking ampere rating of the battery .
If the number is not entered correctly , the result will not be accurate .
Here are the five possible battery conditions :
Good Battery :
Merchandise
The battery has at least 60 percent of its charge and requires no action .
Good Recharge :
The battery condition appears to be good , but charging is recommended and then retest .
See your battery charger ' s instructions to fully charge the battery , then recheck .
Do not charge the battery using the vehicle ' s alternator .
Charge and Retest :
The battery condition is not known because its charge is too low .
Recharge the battery , then retest .
See your battery ' s instructions to fully charge the battery , then recheck .
Replace Battery :
Audio Navigation Hospitality
The battery condition is poor .
Bad Cell :
There is a problem with the battery .
The battery terminal disconnection / reconnection procedure must be done before and after doing this procedure .
Some systems store data in memory that is lost when the battery disconnected .
Remove the two nuts ( A ) securing the battery setting plate , then remove the battery setting plate ( B ) and the battery .
Install the battery ( A ) , then install the battery setting plate ( B ) .
Tighten the two nuts equally until the battery is stable .
Do not deform the battery setting plate by over-tightening the nuts .
ensure the positive terminal and the negative terminal are not reverse-connected .
Parts Counter
Disconnection
Some systems store data in memory that is lost when the battery is disconnected .
Do the following steps before disconnecting the battery .
ensure you have the anti-theft code ( s ) for the audio and / or the navigation system ( if equipped ) .
Write down the audio the presets ( AM and FM ) , and the XM audio presets ( if equipped ) , because the audio unit dose not retain the presets after the battery is disconnected .
ensure the ignition switch is in LOCK ( 0 ) .
Disconnect and isolate the negative cable from the battery .
Always disconnect the negative cable from the battery first .
Disconnect the positive cable from the battery .
Reconnection
Timber Wall
Do the following steps to restore the systems back to normal operation .
Clean the battery terminals .
Test the battery .
Reconnect the positive cable ( A ) to the battery ( B ) first , then reconnect the negative cable to the battery .
Always connect the positive cable to the battery first .
Apply multipurpose grease to the terminals to prevent corrosion .
Do the steering column position memorization .
Enter the anti-theft code ( s ) for the audio system and / or the navigation system ( if equipped ) .
Enter the audio presets ( if applicable ) , and enter the XM audio presets ( if equipped ) .
Set the clock ( for vehicles without navigation ) .
Hospitality
SRS components are located in the area .
Review the SRS component locations and precautions and procedures before performing repairs or servicing .
Disconnect the 7P connector ( A ) from the ignition switch ( B ) .
Remove the two screws and the ignition switch .
Before testing the cargo area accessory power socket , do the multiplex integrated control system troubleshooting using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A
Remove the left side rear trim .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the cargo area accessory power socket ( B ) .
If the terminals are bent , loose , or corroded , repair them as necessary and recheck the system .
Turn the ignition switch to ACCESSORY ( I ) .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Audio Navigation
If there is battery voltage , go to .
If there is no battery voltage , check for :
Blown No . 32 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Blown No . 5 ( 10 A ) fuse in the rear fuse / relay box .
Faulty cargo area accessory power socket relay .
Faulty rear fuse / relay box ( including rear MICU ) .
ensure the bonet and exhaust pipe are cool before washing .
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 2 and body ground .
If there is no continuity , check for :
Remove the socket ( A ) .
Soft Seating
Remove the housing ( B ) .
Install the power socket in the reverse order of removal .
Warning Light : This warning light in the meter instrument has the three warning light function : oil pressure warning light , immobilizer system warning light and fuel injection system warning light .
When pushing the MODE button while “ FUEL ” is displayed , the display can be shifted to odometer , trip meter , or clock mode .
Warning / Indicator Lights :
N : When the transmission is in neutral , the neutral indicator light is lit .
: When the headlight is on high beam , the high beam indicator light is lit .
FI : The warning light in the meter instrument and the fuel injection warning symbol ( FI ) in the digital meter flash whenever the ignition key is turned to “ ON ” or trouble occurs in the fuel injection system .
After turning the ignition key to “ ON ” , the fuel injection warning symbol ( FI ) goes off soon after it has been ensured that its circuit functions properly .
: When the turn signal switch is pushed to the left or right , the corresponding turn signal indicator light flashes .
Colour & Trim
This warning light flashes with the each warning symbols : engine oil pressure warning symbol ( ) / immobilizer system warning symbol ( ) / fuel injection warning symbol ( FI ) .
If the warning light flashes in green or yellow have its cause checked by an authorized dealer .
Remove the console panel .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the front accessory power socket ( B ) .
Faulty accessory power socket relay .
Faulty under-dash fuse / relay box .
Remove the housing ( A ) .
Remove the driver ' s console side trim .
Disconnect the 12P connector ( A ) from the AC inverter unit ( B ) .
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 5 and power outlet 3P connector terminal No . 3 :
Racking
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 12 and power outlet 3P connector terminal No . 1 :
If all the input tests prove OK , replace the AC inverter unit , then go to .
After replacing the AC inverter unit , do the steering column position memorization , and enter the anti-theft codes for the audio system and the navigation system ( if equipped ) , and set the clock ( without navigation ) .
Remove the power outlet ( A ) , and disconnect the 3P connector ( B ) .
Install the power outlet in the reverse order of removal .
Socket
Ref
Connects to
Floor wire harness
It is there to protect personnel against bodily injury
Balancer
Rear wire harness
Cargo area accessory power socket relay
Not used
D ( for trailer )
Rear window defogger relay
SH-AWD relay
Review the SRS component locations . before performing repairs or servicing .
Do the battery terminal disconnection procedure , and wait at least 3 minutes .
Disconnect the connectors from the rear fuse / relay box ( A ) .
Tyer fit
Remove the mounting nuts and the rear fuse / relay box .
Carefully remove the relays by prying under the base of the relay .
Do not use pliers .
Pliers will damage the relays , which could cause the engine to stall or not start .
Install the relays and connect the connectors to the rear fuse / relay box , then install the rear fuse / relay box in the reverse order of removal .
Install the removed parts in the reverse order of removal .
Confirm that all systems work properly .
Under-dash Fuse / Relay Box
Dashboard wire harness
Accessory power socket relay
4 Wheel Align
Left engine compartment wire harness
Front seat heater relay
Driver ' s door subharness
MICU service check connector
PGM-FI main relay 2 ( FUEL PUMP )
Power window relay
R ( for MES connector )
S ( for SRS )
Short pin ( for fuel pump )
Hub unit , Tools , Oil , Water
Short pin ( for lumbar support )
Turn signal / hazard relay
Disconnect the connectors from the fuse side of the under-dash fuse / relay box ( A ) .
Remove the mounting bolts , and pull the fuse / relay box away from the body .
Disconnect the connectors from the back side of the under-dash fuse / relay box , then remove the under-dash fuse / relay box .
The MICU which is part of the under-dash fuse / relay box is a component of the immobilizer system .
Because of this construction , the MICU must be registered when the under-dash fuse / relay box is replaced , or the vehicle will not start .
Install the relays and connect the connectors to the under-dash fuse / relay box , then install the under-dash fuse / relay box in the reverse order of removal .
Veiwing Area
If the under-dash fuse / relay box is replaced , go to .
If the original under-dash fuse / relay box is installed , go to .
Select the BODY ELECTRICAL , then enter the IMMOBILIZER SETUP .
Select the REPLACE MPCS / MICU / IMOES , then select the suitable menu from the Polox system indications .
After registration , confirm that the vehicle will start .
Under-hood Fuse / Relay Box ( Auxiliary Under-hood Relay Box part )
Fog light relay
Right engine compartment wire harness
Interior light relay
Under-hood Fuse / Relay Box ( Relay Control Module part )
Office
Under-hood Fuse / Relay Box ( Relay Block part )
A / C compressor clutch relay
A / C condenser fan relay
Diode ( for A / C condenser fan relay and fan control relay )
Diode ( for radiator fan relay )
Fan control relay
Front blower motor relay
Headlight low beam relay
PGM-FI main relay 2
Radiator fan relay
Female WC
Remove the cover of the under-hood fuse / relay box , and carefully remove the relays by prying under the base of the relay .
Remove the under-hood fuse / relay box from the bracket .
Remove the relay block part ( A ) from the under-hood fuse / relay box .
Remove the relay control module part ( B ) from the under-hood fuse / relay box , then disconnect the connectors from the relay control module .
Install the relay control module and relays , then connect the connectors to the under-hood fuse / relay box .
Install the cover to the bottom of the under-hood fuse / relay box .
Install the under-hood fuse / relay box and the removed parts in the reverse order of removal .
Component or Circuit Grounded
Engine mount
Transmission housing
Disabled
A / T clutch pressure control solenoid valves A , B , and C , CKP sensor A / B , CMP sensor , EGR valve , Ignition coils , PCM ( PG , LG ) , Rocker arm oil pressure switch , Transmission range switch
Hood switch , Right daytime running light , Right fog light , Right front parking light , Right front side marker light , Right front turn signal light , Right headlight ( high beam ) , Right HID unit , Washer fluid level switch
Fan control relay , Front blower motor relay , Headlight washer motor , Power steering pressure ( PSP ) switch , Relay control module , Windshield wiper motor
Left daytime running light , Left fog light , Left front parking light , Left front side marker light , Left front turn signal light , Left headlight ( high beam ) , Left HID unit , Radiator fan motor
Active damper control unit , Brake fluid level switch , ELD unit
VSA modulator-control unit ( 2 wires )
Active damper control unit , Headlight leveling control unit , Relay control module , TPMS control unit
Dash lights brightness controller , Gauge control module ( 2 wires ) , Headlight washer switch , Memory erase signal ( MES ) connector , Moonroof control unit / motor , Power mirror switch , VSA OFF switch
MICU ( BRN wire )
AC inverter unit , A / T gear position indicator panel light , Data link connector ( XTF ) ( 2 wires ) , Left second row seat heater switch , Park-pin switch , Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit , Rear blower motor relay , Rear power transistor , Rear accessory power socket , Right second row seat heater switch , Second row seat heater relay
Male WC
Audio amplifier , Audio unit
Polox unit ( 2 wires )
Center information display / Navigation display unit , Climate control unit , Front passenger ' s door lock knob switch , HandsFreeLink control unit , Interface dial , Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit , Front passenger ' s MPCS unit , Rear climate control panel , Rear controller and screen , Right power mirror , Steering angle sensor , Steering wheel switches , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor
Driver ' s seat heater switch , Front accessory power socket , Front passenger ' s seat heater switch , Front power transistor , Glove box light , Front passenger ' s MPCS unit , Right power mirror ( 2 wires )
Accessory power socket relay , Automatic dimming inside mirror , Combination switch control unit and combination light switch , Driver ' s door lock knob switch , Driver ' s MPCS unit ( 2 wires ) , Driver ' s door power tailgate switch , Driver ' s vanity mirror light , Driving position memory switch , Front passenger ' s vanity mirror light , Fuel fill door opener switch , Ignition key switch , Left rear door lock knob switch , Left power mirror ( 3 wires ) , MICU ( PG ) , MICU ( SG ) , Multiplex control inspection connector , Roof console , Turn signal / hazard relay
Driver ' s lumbar support switch ( 2 wires ) , Driver ' s seat belt buckle switch , Left second row seat heater , Power seat control unit ( 4 wires ) , Right second row seat heater
Rear fuse / relay box , SH-AWD relay ( via rear fuse / relay box ) , SH-AWD control unit ( 3 wires )
Cargo area accessory power socket , Fuel fill door opener solenoid , Fuel pump control module , Rear differential , Rear fuse / relay box ( Rear MICU )
Front passenger ' s seat belt buckle switch , Front passenger ' s seat heater , Front passenger ' s power seat switch ( 2 wires ) , Navigation unit , clip unit
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) ( 2 wires ) , AcuraLink inspection connector 6D connector , Right rear door lock knob switch , Subwoofer , XM receiver ( 2 wires )
Vehicle Access
High mount brake light , Left back-up light , Left brake light , Left taillights , Left license plate light , Left rear side marker light , Left rear turn signal light , Power tailgate control unit ( 2 wires ) , Power tailgate drive unit , Rear window defogger , Right back-up light , Right license plate light , Tailgate release actuator
Electrical compass unit ( Without navigation ) , Power tailgate control unit , Keyless buzzer , Right brake light , Right taillights , Right rear side marker light , Right rear turn signal light , Tailgate latch switch , Tailgate outer handle switch ( Without power tailgate )
Main Under-hood Fuse Box
Fuse Number
Amps
Component ( s ) or Circuit ( s ) Protected
Battery , Power supply
No . 1 , No . 2 , No . 3 , and No . 4 fuses ( in the under-dash fuse / relay box )
Never reach over or around a safety guard .
Line of Balcony Over
No . 12 , No . 13 , No . 14 , No . 15 , No . 16 , and No . 17 fuses ( in the under-dash fuse / relay box )
( TRAILER )
No . 1 , No . 2 , No . 3 , and No . 4 fuses in the rear fuse / relay box ( Optional trailer connectors )
VSA modulator-control unit ( MTR )
( RR BLOWER )
Rear blower motor
Ignition switch ( BAT )
Vehical Access
No . 24 , No . 25 , No . 26 , No . 27 , and No . 28 fuses in the under-dash fuse / relay box , Power window relay in the under-dash fuse / relay box
No . 5 , No . 6 , No . 7 , No . 8 , No . 9 , No . 10 , and No . 11 fuses ( in the rear fuse / relay box )
No . 7 , No . 8 , No . 9 , No . 10 , and No . 11 fuses ( in the under-hood fuse / relay box )
No . 1 , No . 2 , No . 3 , No . 4 , No . 5 , and No . 6 fuses ( in the under-hood fuse / relay box )
No . 14 , No . 15 , No . 16 , and No . 17 fuses ( in the under-hood fuse / relay box )
No . 12 , No . 13 , and No . 22 fuses ( in the under-hood fuse / relay box )
Cruise Control Main Switch ( Left Upper Switch )
Graphics
Active damper control unit
Audio amplifier
Under-dash fuse / relay box ( RES )
Under-dash fuse / relay box ( HAZARD )
Brake light relay , Brake pedal position switch , Relay control module ( Horn relay circuit )
VSA modulator-control unit ( FSR )
Optional ( for trailer )
Second row seat heaters
AC inverter unit
Left daytime running light
Consultation Area
Right daytime running light
Headlight leveling control unit , Left headlight ( high beam )
Right headlight ( high beam )
Front parking lights , Front side marker lights
Headlight low beam relay , No . 18 and No . 19 fuses ( in the under-hood fuse / relay box )
A / F sensor relay , Radiator fan relay
CKP sensor A / B , CMP sensor , ETCS control relay , Ignition coil relay , Injectors , No . 7 ( 7,5 A ) fuse ( in the under-hood fuse / relay box ) , PCM ( IGP ) , PCM ( MRLY ) , PGM-FI main relay 1 ( FI MAIN ) , PGM-FI main relay 2 ( FUEL PUMP )
Ignition coils
EVAP canister vent shut valve , Front A / F sensor ( bank 2 , sensor 1 ) , Front SHO2S ( bank 2 , sensor 2 ) , Rear A / F sensor ( bank 1 , sensor 1 ) , Rear SHO2S ( bank 1 , sensor 2 )
Sales Area
Blower motor
Fog lights , Fog light relay
Headlight washer motor
A / C condenser fan motor
Radiator fan motor
A / C compressor clutch
Left HID unit
Headlight washer motor relay , Right HID unit
Active damper system switch light , A / T gear position indicator panel light , Climate control unit light , Dash lights brightness controller light , Driver ' s ambient light , Driver ' s seat heater switch light , Front passenger ' s seat heater switch light , Glove box light , Hazard warning switch light , Headlight washer switch light , Headphone jack , Interior light relay , Left second row seat heater switch light , Moonroof switch light , Power mirror switch light , Rear climate control panel light , Rear controller and screen , Right second row seat heater switch light , Roof console , Steering wheel switches lights , VSA OFF switch light
TPMS control unit
Consultation Area Consultation Area
Driver ' s lumbar support motor
Moonroof control unit / motor
Driver ' s seat heater , Front passenger ' s seat heater
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) , Audio unit , Navigation unit , XM receiver
Cargo area light , Driver ' s footwell light , Driver ' s vanity mirror light , Front individual map light , Front passenger ' s footwell light , passenger ' s vanity mirror light , Ignition key light , Left rear door courtesy light , Rear individual map light , Right rear door courtesy light , Roof console
Climate control unit , Combination switch control unit , Data link connector , Center information display , Driver ' s MPCS unit , Gauge control module , Immobilizer-keyless control unit , MICU ( VBU ) , Navigation display unit , Front passenger ' s MPCS unit , Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit
MICU ( + B DOOR LOCK )
Front accessory power socket , Rear accessory power socket
Existing Lobby
EVAP canister vent shut valve , Front A / F sensor ( bank 2 , sensor 1 ) , Front SHO2S ( bank 2 , sensor 2 ) , Rear A / F sensor ( bank 1 , sensor 1 ) , Rear SHO2S ( bank 1 , sensor 2 ) , Windshield wiper motor , Wiper / washer control circuit ( in the relay control module )
Subwoofer
Front passenger ' s power seat motor ( Recline , Rear up-down )
Driver ' s power seat motor ( Slide , Front up-down )
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit
Driver ' s power seat motor ( Recline , Rear up-down )
Front passenger ' s power seat motor ( Slide , Front up-down )
A / F sensor , Alternator , Brake pedal position switch , ELD unit , Engine mount control solenoid , EVAP canister purge valve , PCM
Fuel pump , Immobilizer-keyless control unit , PCM , PGM-FI main relay 2 ( FUEL PUMP )
Active damper control unit , Brake light relay , Hazard warning switch , clip unit , SH-AWD control unit , Polox unit
Sales Area Sales Area
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) , Active damper system switch , Automatic dimming inside mirror , Center information display , Combination switch control unit , Driver ' s MPCS unit , Electrical compass unit , Gauge control module , MICU , Power seat control unit , Power tailgate control unit , Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit , Rear MICU ( Rear fuse / relay box ) , Relay control module , Shift lock solenoid , TPMS control unit , XM receiver
Polox unit
Left rear power window motor
Right rear power window motor
Front passenger ' s MPCS unit
Steering angle sensor , modulator-control unit , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor
AC inverter unit , Climate control unit , Front seat heater relay , MICU , Rear climate control panel , Rear mode control motor , Rear window defogger relay ( in the rear fuse / relay box ) , Relay block ( A / C compressor relay , A / C condenser fan relay , Blower motor relay , Fan control relay ) , Second row seat heaters , Second row seat heater relay
Headlight leveling control unit , Wiper / washer control circuit ( in the relay control module ) , Rear MICU ( Rear fuse / relay box ) , Windshield wiper motor , Windshield / rear window washer motor
Accessory power socket relay , AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) , Audio unit , Climate control unit , Ignition key switch , Center information display unit , Interface dial , MICU , Navigation unit , XM receiver
Auxiliary Under-dash Fuse Holder 1
Customer
Wire Color
Ignition switch ( ST )
Starter cut relay 1 , Starter cut relay 2
Optional ( for trailer lighting connector )
Cargo area accessory power socket relay , Cargo area accessory power socket
Inside tailgate switch ( With power tailgate ) , Rear MICU , Tailgate ( cargo area ) lights
SH-AWD control unit
A / C Wire Harness
Zone
Connector or Terminal
Cavities
Location
Notes
Under middle of dash
Front blower motor
Under right side of dash
Front evaporator temperature sensor
Front mode control motor
Front passenger ' s ambient light
Machine guarding is designed to protect against pinch points ( areas where a moving machine member could cause a hazardous pinching condition ) .
Service and Parts Reception
Front passenger ' s footwell light
Front power transistor
Front recirculation control motor
Console Subharness
Active damper system switch
Driver ' s seat heater switch
Front accessory power socket
Front passenger ' s seat heater switch
Power outlet
Console box
Brand Wall
C902 ( junction connector )
With power outlet
Dashboard Wire Harness ( View of Driver ' s Side )
Under left side of dash
Auxiliary under-dash fuse holder 1
Cable reel connector A
In steering column cover
Cable reel connector B
Dash lights brightness controller
Driver ' s ambient light
Children ' s Play Area
Driver ' s footwell light
Gauge control module connector A
Behind gauge
Gauge control module connector B
Headlight washer switch
Canada
Ignition key switch / key light
IG2 cut relay
Left tweeter
Parking brake switch
Timber Panelling
Power mirror switch
Power telescopic motor / position sensor
Power tilt motor / position sensor
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit connector A
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit connector B
Power tilt / telescopic steering switch
Left side of steering column
Steering angle sensor
Dashboard Wire Harness ( View of Driver ' s Side ) ( cont ' d )
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector A
BUILDING SERVICES AND STRUCTURAL CONSIDERATIONS
Left kick panel
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector N
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector P ( MICU )
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector R ( MES )
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector S
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector X
VSA OFF switch
Roof wire harness
C504 ( Trailer electric brake connector )
C510 ( Junction connector )
BUILDINGSERVICES
Body ground , via dashboard wire harness
Dashboard Wire Harness ( View of Passenger ' s Side )
Under center console
Audio unit connector A
Middle of dash
Audio unit connector B
Audio unit connector C
Audio unit connector D ( for XM receiver )
Audio unit connector E
Audio unit connector F
Building engineering services should always be designed to meet the needs of :
Digital audio lead
Center information display
Climate control unit connector A
Climate control unit connector B
Digital audio lead connector
Front center speaker
Front passenger ' s airbag first and second inflators
Glove box light
Interface dial
Navigation display unit
Local environment conditions .
Right tweeter
Stereo amplifier connector A
Stereo amplifier connector B
Sunlight sensor / automatic lighting sensor
A / C wire harness
Front passenger ' s door wire harness
Console subharness
RES wire harness
With navigation
Without navigation
Local building standards .
With rear entertainment system
With XM receiver
Dashboard Wire Harness ( Center Console Branch )
A / T shift lock solenoid
A / T shift lever console light / park-pin switch
Auxiliary jack assembly
Rear of center console
Data link connector
Under rear of center console
In-car temperature sensor
Internal configuration of the facility .
Left second row seat heater switch
Rear accessory power socket
Rear blower motor relay
Rear climate control panel
Rear evaporator temperature sensor
Rear mode control motor
Rear power transistor
Right second row seat heater switch
Second row seat heater relay
Polox unit connector A
Report any unguarded pinch point to your supervisor and / or the safety department so that this unsafe condition can be corrected immediately .
Ideally the building engineering services should be :
Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor
Under console panel
Without rear entertainment system
With second row seat heaters
Driver ' s Door Wire Harness A
Driver ' s door courtesy light
Driver ' s door
Driver ' s door lock switch
Driver ' s MPCS unit connector A
Driver ' s MPCS unit connector B
Integrated and concealed within the fabric of the building .
Driver ' s power tailgate switch / fuel fill door opener switch
Driving position memory switch
Fuel fill door opener switch
Power window master switch
Driver ' s door wire harness B
Driver ' s door power mirror wire harness
Driver ' s Door Wire Harness B
Driver ' s door lock actuator / knob switch / key cylinder switch
Driver ' s power window motor
Left front speaker
Where elements are exposed , the elements should complement the contemporary facility design and match the style and colour of the background .
Driver ' s door wire harness A
Driver ' s Door Subharness
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector K
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector J
Driver ' s Door Power Mirror Wire Harness
Left power mirror actuator
Driver ' s door mirror
Left power mirror defogger connector A
Left power mirror defogger connector B
Left power mirror position sensor
MECHANICAL SYSTEMS - VENTILATION
Left side turn signal light
Left Rear Door Wire Harness
Left rear courtesy light
Left rear door lock actuator / knob switch
Left rear door speaker
Left rear power window switch
Left B-pillar
Front Passenger ' s Door Wire Harness
Front passenger ' s door lock actuator / knob switch
Front passenger ' s door
OVERVIEW :
Front passenger ' s power window motor
Right front speaker
Front passenger ' s door subharness
Front Passenger ' s Door Subharness
Front passenger ' s door courtesy light
Front passenger ' s door lock switch
Front passenger ' s power window switch
Front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector A
Front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector B
Front passenger ' s door power mirror wire harness
The requirements of ventilation systems in a retail environment should contribute to providing a comfortable environment through :
Front Passenger ' s Door Power Mirror Wire Harness
Right power mirror actuator
Front passenger ' s door mirror
Right power mirror defogger connector A
Right power mirror defogger connector B
Right power mirror position sensor
Right side turn signal light
Right Rear Door Wire Harness
Right rear courtesy light
Supplying natural and temperature-controlled fresh air .
Right rear door
Right rear door lock actuator / knob switch
Right rear door speaker
Right rear power window switch
Right B-pillar
Left Engine Compartment Wire Harness
Brake fluid level switch
Left side of engine compartment
Brake light relay
ELD unit
Extracting soiled dirty air .
In the main under-hood fuse box
Left front damper coil
Left front impact sensor
Behind left side of front bumper
Left front TPMS initiator
Left front wheel speed sensor
Main under-hood fuse box
Starter cut relay 1
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector B
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector C
Depending on the local climate , supply air will need to be heated or cooled ( air conditioning ) .
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector D
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector W
VSA modulator-control unit
Engine wire harness
Left front of engine compartment
Body ground , via left engine compartment wire harness
With active damper system
Right Engine Compartment Wire Harness ( Front of Engine Compartment )
Front of engine compartment
Behind right side of front bumper
Extract fans and air handling plant should ideally be situated on the roof and discreet from the primary elevation .
Hood switch
Horn ( High )
Horn ( Low )
Left fog light
Left front parking light
Behind left headlight
Left front side marker light
Left front suspension
Left front turn signal light
Left headlight ( high beam )
Keep the door of the Electrical-Panels closed during the normal operation of the machine
Noise attenuation and abatement should also be considered .
Left headlight leveling motor
Under left headlight
Outside air temperature sensor
Right side of engine compartment
Right fog light
Right front TPMS initiator
Right front impact sensor
Right front parking light
Behind right headlight
Right front side marker light
Design clashes with fixtures should be avoided .
Right-front suspension stroke sensor
Right front suspension
Right front turn signal light
Right front wheel speed sensor
Right headlight leveling motor
Right HID unit
Under right headlight
Washer fluid level switch
Windshield washer motor
ECT sensor subharness
SHOWROOM AND SALES OFFICES :
Body ground , via right engine compartment wire harness
ECT Sensor Subharness
ECT sensor 2
Right Engine Compartment Wire Harness ( Dash to Rear of Engine Compartment )
APP sensor
Brake pedal position switch
In the under-dash fuse / relay box
Under-hood auxiliary relay box
Front vertical acceleration sensor
Headlight washer relay
All ductwork should be concealed .
In the under-hood fuse / relay box
Power steering pressure ( PSP ) switch
Right front damper coil
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay block ) connector A
Relay block
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay block ) connector B
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay block ) connector C
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay control module ) connector A
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay control module ) connector B
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay control module ) connector C
Particular consideration should be given to heat gains and convection / condensation at the glazed showroom fa ç ade and cold bridges at entrance doors .
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay control module ) connector D
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay control module ) connector E
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay control module ) connector F
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay control module ) connector G
Under-hood fuse / relay box ( Relay control module ) connector H
Windshield wiper motor
Engine Wire Harness ( Right Side )
Middle of engine compartment
CMP sensor
Right side of engine
Furthermore , consideration should be given to the configuration at ‘ land-locked ’ rooms which may require supply air .
EGR valve and position sensor
Middle of engine
EVAP canister purge valve
Front A / F sensor ( Bank 2 , Sensor 1 )
Exhaust manifold ( front bank )
Front secondary heated oxygen sensor ( secondary HO2S ) ( Bank 2 , Sensor 2 )
Ignition coil No . 1
Injector No . 1
Intake manifold turning ( IMT ) actuator
Oil pressure switch
In temperate climates , rooms with external walls should maximise the benefits of natural ventilation .
PCM connector B
PCM connector C
Rear A / F sensor ( Bank 1 , Sensor 1 )
Exhaust manifold ( rear bank )
Rear secondary heated oxygen sensor ( secondary HO2S ) ( Bank 1 , Sensor 2 )
Rocker arm oil control solenoid
Rocker arm oil pressure switch
CKP sensor subharness
Knock sensor subharness
CUSTOMER ZONE ( HOSPITALITY AND TOILETS )
Body ground , via engine wire harness ground cable
CKP Sensor Subharness
CKP sensor A / B
Knock Sensor Subharness
Knock sensor
Engine Wire Harness ( Left Side )
A / T clutch pressure control valve A
A / T clutch pressure control valve B
A / T clutch pressure control valve C
All grilles and diffusers should be factory-finished to match the colour palettes of the surroundings .
ATF temperature sensor
Engine mount control solenoid
Input shaft ( mainshaft ) speed sensor
Manifold absolute pressure ( MAP ) sensor
Mass air flow ( MAF ) / Intake air temperature ( IAT ) sensor
Output shaft ( countershaft ) speed sensor
Starter solenoid
Throttle actuator and throttle position sensor
Transmission range switch
2nd clutch transmission fluid pressure switch
Particular consideration should be given to the extraction of soil smells ( restroom / kitchens ) , which should be locally extracted through the roof rather than centralised through the facility .
3rd clutch transmission fluid pressure switch
4th clutch transmission fluid pressure switch
On the transmission housing
Shift solenoid wire harness
S1 ( Thermal joint ) ( SG2 )
S2 ( Thermal joint ) ( LG2 )
Shift Solenoid Wire Harness
Shift solenoid valve A
In the transmission
Shift solenoid valve B
Report any unsafe condition or practice to your supervisor and / or safety department for correction .
MECHANICAL SYSTEMS - HEATING
Shift solenoid valve C
Shift solenoid valve D
Floor Wire Harness ( Left Branch )
Active damper control unit connector A
Left side of cargo area
Active damper control unit connector B
Cargo area accessory power socket
Driver ' s seat belt tensioner
Driver ' s side airbag inflator
Under driver ' s seat
The requirements of heating systems in a retail environment are to contribute to providing a comfortable environment through :
EVAP canister vent shut valve
Fuel fill door opener solenoid
Fuel pump control module
Left side cargo area
Fuel pump / fuel gauge sending unit
Fuel tank pressure ( FTP ) sensor
Left rear damper coil
Under left rear floor
Left C-pillar
Left rear TPMS initiator
Provision of displacing cold air with warm comfortable air .
Left rear vertical acceleration sensor
Left side impact sensor ( 1st )
Left side impact sensor ( 2nd )
Left side curtain airbag inflator
Left second row seat heater
Under left second row seat
Navigation service check connector
Navigation unit connector A
Navigation unit connector B
Navigation unit connector C
In extreme climates where air-conditioning is required , the heating provision may be incorporated with the ventilation systems .
Navigation unit connector D
Navigation unit connector E
Rear fuse / relay box connector A
Rear fuse / relay box connector B
Rear safing sensor
Middle of floor
Reverse diode
SH-AWD control unit connector A
SH-AWD control unit connector B
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector E
If piped water is the medium for heating , pipework should be concealed and all exposed heating panels should be finished in the colour palette to match the background .
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector F
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector G
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector H
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector Q
With navigation or electrical compass
Without navigation and electrical compass
Floor Wire Harness ( Left Branch ) ( cont ' d )
Driver ' s seat wire harness
Rear subframe wire harness
Left rear door wire harness
Local / central boilers , pumps and ancillary plant should ideally be situated discreet from customers .
Body ground , via floor wire harness
Floor Wire Harness ( Right branch )
AcuraLink connector ( Male connector )
Right side of cargo area
AcuraLink connector ( Female connector )
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B
Front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner
Front passenger ' s side airbag inflator
Noise attenuation and abatement associated with dynamic systems ( e . g . pumps ) should also be considered .
Right rear damper coil
Under right side of floor
Right C-pillar
Right rear TPMS initiator
Right-rear vertical acceleration sensor
Right side curtain airbag inflator
Right second row seat cushion heater
Under right second row seat
Right side impact sensor ( 1st )
Right side impact sensor ( 2nd )
Convection at showroom glazed facades should be mitigated .
Roll rate sensor
Polox unit connector B
Polox unit connector C
Under front passenger ' s seat
XM receiver
Right kick panel
Front passenger ' s power seat wire harness
Without Navigation
Right side of floor
clip wire harness
Buildings - Building Services and Structural Considerations - Revision 2
Right rear door wire harness
Mounted on B-pillar
USA models with AcuraLink
Without AcuraLink
Rear Wire Harness
Condenser ( for high mount brake light )
Left D-pillar
Condenser ( for rear window defogger )
Electrical compass unit
Keyless buzzer / power tailgate buzzer
MECHANICAL SERVICES - HOT AND COLD WATER SERVICES
Behind rear bumper
Left brake light / taillight
Left taillight assembly
Left rear side marker light
Left rear turn signal light
Left surround speaker
Power tailgate control unit connector A
Power tailgate control unit connector B
Power tailgate control unit connector C
Power tailgate driver unit connector A
Bearing Ladder Y Axis Positions .
Ensure that the operator work areas are kept clean .
The requirements of hot and cold water services in a retail environment are to contribute to providing a healthy environment throughout :
Power tailgate driver unit connector B
Rear fuse / relay box connector C
Right brake light / taillight
Right taillight assembly
Right rear side marker light
Right rear turn signal light
Right surround speaker
Right D-pillar
Left tailgate wire harness
Right tailgate wire harness
Supply of potable fresh cold water and warm water for customers convenient and safe use .
C705 ( female connector )
' 08-09 models * 1
C705 ( male connector )
S3 ( Thermal joint )
Body ground , via rear wire harness
Center of cargo area
With navigation or compass
Without navigation and compass
Canada models without navigation
Roof Wire Harness
Consideration should be given to determine an adequate water supply to hospitality areas , restrooms and any other facilities requiring piped water .
Automatic dimming inside mirror
Front of roof
Driver ' s vanity mirror light
Left front side of roof
Middle of roof
Moonroof switch
Front center of roof
Optional connector
Passenger ' s vanity mirror light
Right front side of roof
Tanks , pumps and ancillary plant should ideally be situated on the roof and discreet from the primary elevation .
Roof subharness
' 07 Canada models and ' 08-09 models
Roof Subharness
Cargo area light
Rear of roof
Driver ' s Seat Wire Harness
Driver ' s power seat adjustment switch
Driver ' s power seat control unit connector A
Driver ' s power seat control unit connector B
Driver ' s power seat front up-down motor
Within the design concept , exposed pipework should be avoided .
Driver ' s power seat front up-down position sensor
Driver ' s power seat rear up-down motor
Driver ' s power seat rear up-down position sensor
Driver ' s power seat slide motor
Driver ' s power seat slide position sensor
Driver ' s seat-back heater
Driver ' s seat belt buckle switch
Driver ' s seat cushion heater
Driver ' s seat position sensor
Lumbar support switch
All pipework should be concealed above the suspended ceiling , in ceiling spaces and pipe casings .
Driver ' s seat subharness
Driver ' s Seat Subharness
Driver ' s seat power recline motor / position sensor
Left side of driver ' s seat-back
Lumbar support motor
Right side of driver ' s seat-back
Front Passenger ' s Seat Wire Harness
Front passenger ' s power seat adjustment switch
Front passenger ' s power seat front up-down motor
Front passenger ' s power seat rear up-down motor
If exposed pipework is unavoidable , these pipes should be painted to match the background colour palettes .
Front passenger ' s power seat recline motor
Front passenger ' s power seat slide motor
Front passenger ' s seat belt buckle switch
Front passenger ' s seat cushion heater
clip Unit Harness
clip unit
Left side of front passenger ' s seat
Starter Cable
Exposed pipework should be avoided .
Starter motor
Battery positive terminal
Battery Ground Cable
Battery negative terminal
Body ground , via battery ground cable
Engine Ground Cable A
Body ground , via battery ground cable A
Engine Ground Cable B
All pipework should be concealed in ceiling spaces and pipe casings .
Engine mount bracket
Body ground , via battery ground cable B
Rear Subframe Wire Harness
Differential temperature sensor
Rear differential
Left clutch electromagnetic coil
Left rear wheel speed sensor
Left rear suspension stroke sensor
Right clutch electromagnetic coil
Right rear suspension stroke sensor
Special consideration should be given to piped hospitality units , drinking fountains and the like .
Right rear wheel speed sensor
Under rear of floor
Subframe
Body ground , via rear subframe wire harness
Left Tailgate Wire Harness
High mount brake light
Roof spoiler
Rear window defogger connector A ( + )
Left side of rear window
Left side of tailgate
Do not work on slippery floors and surfaces .
Given the low-capacity needs , localised heating may be beneficial rather than a centralised boiler point .
Middle tailgate wire harness
Middle Tailgate Wire Harness
Left back-up light
Left license plate light
Center of tailgate
Left power tailgate pinch sensor
Left tailgate light
Power tailgate closer motor
Power tailgate closer unit / latch and ratchet switch
Right back-up light
PLUMBING SYSTEMS – SANITARY APPLIANCES AND EQUIPMENT
Right side of tailgate
Right license plate light
Right power tailgate pinch sensor
Right tailgate light
Right side of rear window
Rearview camera
Rear window defogger connector B ( − )
Tailgate release actuator
Remove the right inner fender .
Disconnect the 2P connectors ( A ) from the washer motor ( s ) ( B ) and the washer fluid level switch .
The requirements of sanitary appliances and equipment in a retail environment contribute to providing a convenient environment through :
Washer Reservoir Capacity
4,0 L ( 4,2 US qt ) :
USA models
5,8 L ( 6,1 US qt ) :
Canada models
Disconnect the washer tubes .
Remove the bolts and the washer reservoir .
Check the washer motor operation .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the washer fluid level switch .
Remove the washer fluid level switch from the washer reservoir .
Supply of support facilities for customer use .
Fluid may flow out of the opening .
Check for continuity between the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 in each float position .
There should be continuity when the float is down .
There should be no continuity when the float is up .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the washer motor ( B ) .
Test the motor by connecting battery power to the terminal No . 2 ( No . 1 ) and ground the terminal No . 1 ( No . 2 ) of the washer motor .
The motor should run .
Rear window washer direction .
If the motor runs smoothly , but little or no washer fluid is pumped , check for a disconnected or blocked washer hose , or a clogged washer motor outlet .
Remove the washer nozzles and clips , then remove the washer tubes .
CUSTOMER ZONE ( HOSPITALITY AND TOILETS ) :
Windshield / Rear Window Washers
Headlight Washer ( Canada models )
Take care not to pinch the washer tubes .
Check the washer operation .
Wiper arms park position
When the wiper arms stop at the park ( automatic stop ) position , confirm that they are at the standard position .
Position at about 1,6 in . ( 40,7 mm ) from the top of cowl cover ( A )
Position at about 2,1 in . ( 54,3 mm ) from the top of cowl cover ( A )
Each customer zone should have dedicated toilets for male and female customers .
Washer nozzle position
When you turn on the washers , confirm more than 50 % of the washer fluid lands within the spray area .
If the spray area is not within the standard positions , adjust the nozzles .
Position at about 6,2 in . ( 157,3 mm ) from the top of the black ceramic area ( B ) at the lower windshield
Position at about 11,8 in . ( 300 mm ) from the windshield center line
Rear Window
These facilities should be independent of the technician toilets .
Wiper arm park position
When the wiper arm stops at the park position , confirm that it is at the standard position .
Position at about 0,4 in . ( 11,2 mm ) from the black ceramic area ( A )
Position at about 5,1 in . ( 130,2 mm ) from the rear washer nozzle ( B )
Lift the wiper arms from the windshield .
Lift the driver ' s side first .
Press and hold the tab ( A ) and slide the wiper blade ( B ) toward the tab to release it from the wiper arm .
Slide the rubber ( A ) out from the wiper blade ( B ) .
Install a new rubber to the wiper blade in the reverse order of removal .
Install the wiper blades onto the wiper arms in the reverse order of removal .
Consideration should be given to the local codes to determine a suitable provision for the number of sanitary appliances .
Check the wiper operation , if the blades slip , turn the wiper switch OFF , and reinstall the wiper blades securely .
Lift the wiper arm from the rear window .
Turn the rear wiper blade ( A ) , release the lock , and then remove the wiper blade from the rear wiper arm ( B ) .
Raise the old rubber ( A ) , and remove it from the wiper blade ( B ) .
Install the new rubber and the wiper blade in the reverse order of removal .
After installation , confirm that the wiper arm works smoothly .
Open the hood , and remove the wiper arms .
Carefully remove the wiper arms so that they do not touch the hood .
Remove the cowl covers .
Disconnect the 6D connector ( A ) from the windshield wiper motor ( B ) .
Furthermore , local codes should define the provision of dedicated disabled facilities .
Test the motor by connecting battery power to the windshield wiper motor 6D connector terminal No . 3 and ground to the terminal No . 2 . The motor should run at low speed .
If the motor does not run or fails to run smoothly , replace the motor .
Test the motor by connecting battery power to the windshield wiper motor 6D connector terminal No . 5 and ground to the terminal No . 2 . The motor should run at high speed .
If the motor does not run or fails to run smoothly , replace the motor .
Connect an analog ohmmeter between the windshield wiper motor 6D connector terminals No . 1 and No . 4 , and run the motor at low or high speed .
The ohmmeter should indicate continuity and no continuity alternately .
If it does not , replace the motor .
Open the tailgate , and remove the tailgate lower panel .
Disconnect the 4P connector ( A ) from the rear window wiper motor ( B ) .
Test the motor by connecting battery power to the rear window wiper motor 4P connector terminal No . 1 and ground to the terminal No . 2 . The motor should run .
Other considerations include the provision of drinking fountains and hospitality type facilities .
Connect an analog ohmmeter between the rear window wiper motor 4P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 3 . The ohmmeter should indicate continuity and no continuity alternately .
Remove the caps , nuts ( A ) , and the windshield wiper arms ( B ) .
Disconnect the 6D connector ( A ) from the wiper motor .
Remove the three bolts ( B ) and the wiper linkage assembly .
ensure the mark of the link to show the original adjustment .
Separate the windshield wiper linkage ( A ) from the wiper motor ( B ) .
Install in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Align the marks of the link and the linkage to install the linkage with the original adjustment .
Apply multipurpose grease to the moving parts .
Before installing the wiper arms , turn the wiper switch ON , then OFF to return the shafts to the park position .
Wear medical alert accessories with caution .
If exposed pipework is unavoidable , these pipes should be painted to match the colour palettes of the background .
If necessary , replace any damaged clips .
After installation , adjust the wiper arms .
Open the tailgate , and remove the tailgate lower trim panel .
Remove the mounting nut ( A ) , the wiper arm ( B ) and the special nut .
Disconnect the 4P connector ( A ) and remove the three mounting bolts ( B ) , then remove the rear window wiper motor .
Before testing the combination switch control unit , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Remove the dashboard lower cover .
Disconnect the 8P connector ( A ) from the wiper / washer switch ( B ) .
If all the input tests prove OK , go to step 6 .
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 1 and the under-hood fuse / relay box connector E ( 14P ) terminal No . 11 :
PLUMBING SYSTEMS – DISPOSAL PIPEWORK
Disconnect under-hood fuse / relay box connector E ( 14P ) and under-dash fuse / relay box connector P ( 30P )
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 2 of the combination switch control unit and the headlight leveling control unit terminal No . 16 :
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 4 and under-dash fuse / relay box connector N ( 46D ) terminal No . 28 :
Disconnect under-dash fuse / relay box connector N ( 46D )
Disconnect under-hood fuse / relay box connector E ( 14P )
Reconnect the 8P connector to the wiper / washer switch , and do these input tests at the following connector .
If all the input tests prove OK , replace the wiper / washer switch ( combination switch control unit ) .
The wiper / washer switch is built into the combination switch control unit .
For the wiper / washer test , refer to the combination switch control unit input test .
All disposal routes through customer areas should be avoided ; this includes rainwater disposal pipework .
Remove the steering column covers .
Disconnect the combination light switch 20P connector ( A ) , and dashboard wire harness 8P connector ( B ) from the wiper / washer switch .
Remove the two screws , then slide out the wiper / washer switch .
Anti-pinch Power Window Operation
The system is composed of the driver ' s MPCS unit , front passenger ' s MPCS unit , power window master switch , passenger ' s switches , and power window motors .
The power window motor incorporates a pulser which generates pulses during the motor ' s operation and sends pulses to the driver ' s and front passenger ' s MPCS units .
As soon as the power window control unit detects a change in the pulse frequency from the pulser , the power window control unit makes the power window motor stop and reverse .
This is to prevent pinching your hand or fingers during auto-up operation .
Key Cylinder Operation
With the key inserted in the driver ' s door key cylinder , turn the key a second time within 15 seconds and hold it to operate the windows and moonroof ( clockwise to open , counterclockwise to close ) .
Where routes are unavoidable , these should be concealed in pipe casings .
The windows and moonroof stop moving when the key is released .
The anti-pinch operation is not active when closing the windows and moonroof with the key cylinder .
Keyless Operation
By pressing and holding the UNLOCK button of the keyless transmitter a second time within 15 seconds , the windows and moonroof open .
The windows and moonroof stop moving when the UNLOCK button is released .
The windows do not close with the LOCK button .
Disconnect driver ' s MPCS unit ( A ) connectors A ( 40P ) and B ( 14P ) .
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector J ( 21P ) and power window master switch connector B ( 14P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between the A8 terminal and under-dash fuse / relay box connector J ( 12P ) terminal No . 1 , and A8 terminal and power window master switch connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 13 :
Short to ground in the wire
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS - MAIN INCOMING POWER / SWITCH-GEAR
Blown No . 3 ( P / W ) ( 50 A ) fuse in the main under-hood fuse box
Faulty power window relay
Connect the A39 terminal to body ground , and connect the A3 and B8 terminals with a jumper wire .
Check the left rear power window motor operation :
The motor should run ( the power window should go up ) .
Faulty left rear power window switch
Faulty left rear power window motor
All incoming power supplies and mains switch-gear should be situated away from customer touch-points .
Connect the A39 terminal to body ground , and connect the A32 and B8 terminals with a jumper wire .
The motor should run ( the power window should go down ) .
Connect the B8 and B1 terminals , and the B7 and B14 terminals with jumper wires .
Check the driver ' s power window motor operation :
Faulty driver ' s power window motor
Driver ' s power window switch in UP position
Check for continuity between the terminals : There should be continuity .
This mitigates maintenance operations disrupting the customer experience .
Faulty power window master switch
Driver ' s power window switch released
Under all condition ( except pressing the driver ' s power window switch DOWN position )
Driver ' s power window switch in DOWN position
If all the input tests prove OK , replace the driver ' s MPCS unit , then go to .
Faulty driver ' s MPCS unit
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , and driver ' s power window motor runs by connecting the B8 and B1 terminals and the B7 and B14 terminals with jumper wires .
In the interests of safety of customers and the untrained , where possible , 3-phase power should be avoided in the retail environment .
Measure the voltage between the B4 and B6 terminals :
There should be 0 − about 5 V − 0 − about 5 V repeatedly ( a digital voltmeter reads about 2,5 V while the power window moves ) .
Reset the power window control unit .
Resetting the power window after doing any of the following actions :
Power window regulator replacement or repair .
Power window motor replacement or repair .
Window run channel replacement .
Door glass replacement or repair .
Driver ' s MPCS unit replacement .
Front passenger ' s MPCS unit replacement .
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS - GENERAL BACKGROUND
Power is removed from the driver ' s or front passenger ' s MPCS unit while the power window timer is ON .
If the passenger ' s window has lost power when the key off timer is ON , it cannot be operated from the driver ' s switch and must be reset from the passenger ' s power window switch .
Using the Polox system
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , then enter the vehicle ' s VIN and mileage at the prompts .
Select BODY ELECTRICAL ' ' from the SYSTEM SELECT ' ' menu .
From the BODY ELECTRICAL SYSTEM SELECT ' ' menu , select POWER WINDOWS ' ' .
From the MODE ' ' menu , select ADJUSTMENTS ' ' .
From the ADJUSTMENT ' ' menu , select WINDOW PRESET ' ' for driver ' s side ( passenger ' s side ) window .
Follow the prompts on the screen .
Confirm that the power window control unit is reset by using the window AUTO UP and AUTO DOWN function .
LIGHTING AND EMERGENCY LIGHTING
Without the Polox system
To start the reset procedure , do the driver ' s power window master switch first ( steps 1 − 8 ) , then do the passenger ' s power window switch ( steps 9 − 11 ) if equipped .
Do each bulleted item in within 5 seconds of each other .
Driver ' s Power Window
Move the window all the way down by using the driver ' s window DOWN switch .
Do the following 3 times before going to :
Push and hold the driver ' s window DOWN switch .
Release the driver ' s window DOWN switch .
Confirm that AUTO UP no longer works .
If AUTO UP still works , go back to .
Remove all chips and hazardous obstacles .
General background lighting and emergency lighting should contribute to providing a suitable comfortable and safe environment through :
Move the driver ' s window all the way down using the driver ' s window DOWN switch .
Pull up and hold the driver ' s window UP switch until the driver ' s window is all the way up , then continue to hold the switch for 1 second .
Confirm that the power window control unit is reset by using the driver ' s window AUTO UP and AUTO DOWN function .
If the window still does not work in AUTO , repeat the procedure several times , paying close attention to the 5 second time limit between steps .
If it still does not work , go to B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Front Passenger ' s Power Window ( if equipped )
Move the front passenger ' s window all the way down using the front passenger ' s power window DOWN switch .
Pull up and hold the front passenger ' s power window UP switch until the front passenger ' s power window is all the way up , then continue to hold the switch for 1 second .
Confirm that the power window control unit is reset by using the front passenger ' s power window AUTO UP and DOWN function .
Disconnect front passenger ' s MPCS unit ( A ) connectors A ( 28P ) and B ( 14P ) .
Contribution to the atmosphere and ambience .
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector X ( 39P ) and the moonroof control unit / motor 10P connector disconnected
Check for continuity between the A4 terminal and under-dash fuse / relay box connector X ( 39P ) terminal No . 15 :
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , connect the A3 and B8 terminals with a jumper wire .
Check the right rear power window motor operation :
Faulty right rear power window switch
Faulty right rear power window motor
Ignition switch ON ( II ) , connect the A28 and B8 terminals with a jumper wire .
Check the front passenger ' s power window motor operation :
Faulty front passenger ' s power window motor
Supply of illumination to public areas in case of emergency electrical failure .
Front passenger ' s power window switch in AUTO position
Faulty front passenger ' s power window switch
Front passenger ' s power window switch released
Front passenger ' s power window switch in DOWN position
Front passenger ' s power window switch in UP position
This section should be read in conjunction with the Lighting Section .
Under all condition ( except pressing the front passenger ' s power window switch DOWN position )
There should be 0 − about 5 V − 0 − about 5 V repeatedly ( a digital voltmeter reads about 2,5 V while the power window moves ) .
Poor ground ( G506 , G507 )
Remove the door panel , and disconnect the driver ' s door wire harness B 28P connector ( A ) from the driver ' s door wire harness A .
At the driver ' s door wire harness B 28P connector , test the power window motor in each direction by connecting battery power and ground according to the table .
When the motor stops running , disconnect one lead immediately .
If the motor does not run or fails to run smoothly , go to .
Disconnect the 6P connector ( A ) from the driver ' s power window motor ( B ) .
Customer and user needs should be considered .
Check for continuity between the driver ' s power window motor 6P connector terminals No . 3 and No . 6 and the driver ' s door wire harness B 28P connector terminals No . 15 and No . 16 respectively .
If there is no continuity , repair open in the wire .
If there is continuity , replace the power window motor .
After replacing the power window motor , reset the power window control unit .
Remove the door panel , and disconnect the front passenger ' s door wire harness 20P connector ( A ) from the front passenger ' s door subharness .
At the front passenger ' s door wire harness 20P connector , test the power window motor in each direction by connecting battery power and ground according to the table .
Disconnect the 6P connector ( A ) from the front passenger ' s power window motor ( B ) .
Check for continuity between the front passenger ' s power window motor 6P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 4 and the front passenger ' s door wire harness 20P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 12 respectively .
Remove the door panel , and disconnect the rear power window switch 14P connector ( A ) .
Test the power window motor in each direction by connecting battery power and ground according to the table .
Dark spots and shadows should always be avoided .
Disconnect the 6P connector ( A ) from the rear power window motor ( B ) .
Check for continuity between the rear power window motor 6P connector terminals No . 1 [ No . 3 ] and No . 4 [ No . 6 ] and the front rear power window switch 14P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 7 respectively .
Right rear power window
Relay puller
Use this chart to identify the type of relay , then do the test listed for it .
Relay
We recommend that you do not drive for many hours without stopping for a rest .
Normally-open type
Starter cut relay 1 , 2
Feature areas should be addressed by way of feature / display lighting .
Five-terminal type
The following relays are part of the relay control module :
PGM-FI main relay 1 , ignition coil relay , PGM-FI subrelay and ETCS relay .
To test these relays , go to relay control module test .
Carefully remove the relay from the under-dash fuse / relay box using the relay puller .
Pliers will damage the relay .
Normally-open Type
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 when battery positive terminal is connected to the terminal No . 4 , and battery negative terminal is connected to the terminal No . 3 .
There should be no continuity between the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 when power is disconnected .
Five-terminal Type
Contamination from light sources should also be prevented .
There should be continuity between the terminals No . 1 and No . 4 when power is disconnected .
Relay Control Module Test
The relay control module is part of the under-hood fuse / relay box , and it contains these relays :
Ignition coil relay
PGM-FI subrelay
ETCS relay
If any of these relays fail the test , replace the under-hood fuse / relay box .
Do the battery terminal disconnection procedure , then disconnect under-hood fuse / relay box connectors C ( 2P ) , E ( 14P ) , and H ( 9P ) .
PGM-FI main relay 1 :
Connect the E5 terminal to body ground .
Choice of luminaires and ancillary fittings should be based on the basic specification provided .
There should be battery voltage between the H1 terminal and body ground .
Disconnect the E5 terminal from the body ground .
There should be no voltage between the H1 terminal and the body ground .
Ignition coil relay :
There should be battery voltage between the H6 terminal and body ground .
There should be no voltage between the H6 terminal and the body ground .
Connect the E5 and E13 terminals to body ground .
There should be battery voltage between the H9 terminal and body ground .
There should be no voltage between the H9 terminal and the body ground .
ETCS relay :
Where no standards have been provided , the style of luminaires and fittings should complement the contemporary design of the facility .
Connect the E5 and E14 terminals to body ground .
There should be battery voltage between the H7 terminal and body ground .
There should be no voltage between the H7 terminal and the body ground .
Remove the front passenger ' s door panel , and disconnect the 14P connector from the front passenger ' s power window switch .
Remove the power window switch panel .
Remove the three mounting screws and the front passenger ' s power window switch ( A ) .
Install the switch in the reverse order of removal .
Remove the driver ' s door panel , and disconnect the 14P connector from the power window master switch .
Remove the four mounting screws and the power window master switch ( A ) .
Remove the rear door panel , and disconnect the 14P connector from the rear power window switch .
Never attempt to clean the equipment while it is in operation
Luminaires should facilitate easy maintenance .
Remove the three mounting screws and the rear power window switch ( A ) .
Swap the rear power window switch with another known-good power window switch and test .
If the original power window switch is faulty ; replace it .
Combination Switch Control Unit Internal ( EEPROM ) Error
If you are troubleshooting multiple DTCs , be sure to follow the instructions in B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Clear the DTCs with the Polox system .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) and then back ON ( II ) .
Wait for more than 6 seconds .
Replace the combination switch control unit .
Intermittent failure , the system is fine at this time .
Emergency lighting luminaires should be ideally integrated with the general lighting .
Combination Switch Control Unit Lost Communication with MICU ( MICU Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the combination switch control unit and the MICU .
Are DTCs B1055 , B1157 , B1806 , B1955 , and B2155 also indicated ?
Do the MICU input test .
Do the combination switch control unit input test .
Combination Light Switch OFF Position Circuit Malfunction
Combination Light Switch Parking ( SMALL ) Position Circuit Malfunction
Headlight Switch AUTO Position Circuit Malfunction
Headlight Switch ON Position Circuit Malfunction
Operate each combination light switch position for more than 2 seconds , then turn the combination light switch OFF .
All cabling should be concealed .
Is DTC B1275 , B1276 , B1277 and / or B1278 indicated ?
Check for loose or poor connections .
Do the combination light switch test and check for open or short in the combination light switch terminals in each switch position .
Is the combination light switch OK ?
Faulty combination switch control unit , replace the wiper / washer switch .
Replace the combination light switch .
Headlight Switch DIMMER Position Circuit Malfunction
Change the DIMMER switch from low beam to high beam and wait for 2 seconds .
Pull and hold the combination light switch lever , and hold the passing switch position for more than 2 seconds .
Intermittent failure , the headlight switch DIMMER circuit is OK at this time .
It is good practice to incorporate all cabling within tubular containment systems to permit ease of rewiring and future adaptations / expansions .
Turn Signal Switch Circuit Malfunction
Turn the turn signal switch to left position and wait for 2 seconds , then turn to right position and wait for 2 seconds .
Intermittent failure , the turn signal switch circuit is OK at this time .
Do the combination light switch test and check for open or short in the turn signal switch terminals in each switch position .
Is the turn signal switch OK ?
Windshield Wiper Switch MIST Position Circuit Malfunction
Windshield Wiper Switch INT ( AUTO ) Position Circuit Malfunction
Windshield Wiper Switch LOW Position Circuit Malfunction
Windshield Wiper Switch HIGH Position Circuit Malfunction
If you are troubleshooting multiple DTCs , be sure to follow the instructions in B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Careful consideration should be given to circuits and lighting controls , particularly lighting the showroom during out-of-hours use .
Turn the windshield wiper switch to MIST , and wait for 2 seconds .
Turn the windshield wiper switch OFF , and wait for 2 seconds .
Turn the windshield wiper switch to INT ( AUTO ) , and wait for 2 seconds .
Turn the windshield wiper switch to LOW , and wait for 2 seconds .
Turn the windshield wiper switch in HIGH , and wait for 2 seconds .
Is DTC B1281 , B1282 , B1283 , and / or B1284 indicated ?
Replace the wiper / washer switch .
Intermittent failure , the wiper / washer switch and the combination switch control unit are OK at this time .
Gauge Control Module Internal ( EEPROM ) Error
SHOWROOM :
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with Combination Switch Control Unit ( HLSW Message )
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with Combination Switch Control Unit ( WIPSW Message )
If you are troubleshooting multiple DTCs , be sure to follow the instructions in B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Is DTC B1155 and / or B1156 indicated ?
Check for loose or poor connections between the gauge control module and the combination switch control unit .
Are DTCs B1007 , B1062 , B1063 , B1957 , B1958 , and / or B2969 also indicated ?
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with MICU ( MICU Message )
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with MICU ( DOORSW Message )
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with MICU ( AUTOLT Message )
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with the MICU ( RM Message )
Illumination should be provided over the vehicles supplemented by perimeter lighting in accordance with the specifications provided .
Check for loose or poor connections between the gauge control module and the MICU .
Are DTCs B1055 , B1056 , B1057 , B1255 , B1955 , B2155 , B2156 , and / or B2161 also indicated ?
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with Relay Control Module ( RM Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the gauge control module and the relay control module .
Are DTCs B1005 , B1959 , B2162 , and / or B2970 also indicated ?
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with PCM ( ENG Message )
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with the PCM ( A / T Message )
F-CAN Communication Line Error
Is DTC B1168 , B1169 , and / or B1178 indicated ?
Check for loose or poor connection between the gauge control module and the PCM .
SALES OFFICE AND CUSTOMER LOUNGE :
Check for Fuel and Emissions Systems DTCs with the Polox system .
Are there any DTCs indicated ?
Go to the indicated DTCs , then recheck .
Disconnect gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) .
Connect gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) connector terminals No . 6 and No . 12 and body ground with jumper wires .
Check for continuity between body ground and PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminals No . 48 and No . 49 individually .
Update the PCM if it does not have the latest software , or substitute a known-good PCM , and recheck .
If the indication goes away , replace the original PCM .
If the DTC is still present , replace the gauge control module .
Repair open in the wire .
Luminaires should provide a relaxed clean environment and be integrated with the ceilings .
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with the VSA Modulator-Control Unit ( VSA Message )
Check for loose or poor connection between the gauge control module and the modulator-control unit .
Check for VSA System DTCs with the Polox system .
Disconnect the modulator-control unit 46P connector .
Check for continuity between body ground and modulator-control unit 46P connector terminals No . 38 and No . 39 individually .
Substitute a known-good modulator-control unit , and recheck .
If the indication goes away , replace the original modulator-control unit .
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with the TPMS Control Unit ( TPMS Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the gauge control module and the TPMS control unit .
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS - DISPLAY AND FEATURE LIGHTING
Check for TPMS DTCs with the Polox system .
Disconnect the TPMS control unit 20P connector .
Check for continuity between body ground and TPMS control unit 20P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 11 individually .
Substitute a known-good TPMS control unit , and recheck .
If the indication goes away , replace the original TPMS control unit .
Fuel Level Sensor ( Fuel Gauge Sending Unit ) Circuit Open
Is DTCs B1175 indicated ?
Check for loose or poor connections between the gauge control module and the fuel tank unit .
Disconnect the fuel tank unit 4P connector .
Stop and lockout the system completely by disengaging the POWER ON / OFF switches before performing any service or interior maintenance .
Display and feature lighting are critical to the contribution of a successful retail environment .
Disconnect gauge control module connectors A ( 12P ) and B ( 24P ) .
Connect the fuel tank unit 4P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 3 and body ground with jumper wires .
Check for continuity between gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminal No . 11 and body ground , and connector B ( 24P ) terminal No . 15 and body ground respectively .
Repair open in the wire between the gauge control module and the fuel tank unit .
Do the fuel gauge sending unit test .
Is the fuel tank unit OK ?
Replace the gauge control module .
Replace the fuel gauge sending unit .
Fuel Level Sensor ( Fuel Gauge Sending Unit ) Circuit Short
Check for continuity between gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminal No . 11 and body ground .
The display lighting should :
Repair short to ground in the wire between the gauge control module and the fuel tank unit .
Battery Voltage Abnormal
Crank the engine .
Intermittent failure , the gauge control module and power supply voltage ( IG1 ) that is supplied to the gauge control module are OK at this time .
The battery may have been discharged , and recovered .
Check the battery and the charging system .
Are the battery condition normal and the charging system OK ?
The battery needs a recharge or replacement , or the charging system needs to repair .
With gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) still connected , measure the voltage between the gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminal No . 7 and body ground .
Is the voltage above 7,5 V ?
Highlight the products to their best advantage .
Repair open or high resistance in the IG1 line between the ignition switch and the gauge control module .
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with Driver ' s MPCS Unit ( DRLOCKSW Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the gauge control module and the driver ' s MPCS unit .
Are DTCs B1013 , B1015 , B1065 , and B1905 indicated with DTC B1182 ?
Do the driver ' s MPCS unit input test .
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with Polox unit ( SRS Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the gauge control module and the Polox unit .
Check for SRS DTCs with the Polox system .
Disconnect Polox unit connector A .
Check for continuity between gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) No . 6 and Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 12 , and between gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminal No . 12 and Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 11 .
Highlight the architectural features of the facility to their best advantage .
Substitute a known-good Polox unit , and recheck .
If the indication goes away , replace the original Polox unit .
Immobilizer-Keyless Control Unit Lost Communication with Driver ' s MPCS Unit ( DRLOCKSW Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the immobilizer-keyless control unit and the driver ' s MPCS unit .
Immobilizer-Keyless Control Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( A / T Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the immobilizer-keyless control unit and the gauge control module .
Are DTCs B1061 , B1359 , B1808 , and B1956 also indicated ?
Communication Bus Line Error
Intermittent failure , the communication bus line is OK at this time .
Choice of luminaires and ancillary fittings should be carefully considered .
Check for loose or poor connections , or worn / shorted wires .
If the connections are good , check the battery condition and the charging system .
Are DTCs B1000 , B1005 , B1007 , B1011 , B1012 , B1013 , B1015 and B1032 all indicated ?
Faulty MICU ; replace the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Disconnect the appropriate connector at each control unit in the table one at a time .
Clear the DTC , then recheck for DTCs after each unit is disconnected .
Control unit
Under-hood fuse / relay box connector E ( 14P )
Connector A ( 12P )
7P connector
Luminaires should facilitate a flexible use and easy maintenance and be integrated into the background ( display lighting should emphasise the product on display – not detract attention away from the product ) .
8P connector
Connector A ( 40P )
40P connector
Connector C ( 24P )
28P connector
Connector C ( 14P )
Connector B ( 16P )
Rear MICU *
Rear fuse / relay box connector B ( 34P )
Disconnect this one last
Abnormal heat gains arising from display lighting must be avoided .
Is DTC B1000 indicated with each individual unit disconnected ?
Replace the control unit that was disconnected when B1000 did not reset ( If the unit is the rear MICU , go to . )
Disconnect rear fuse / relay box connectors B ( 34P ) and C ( 42P ) .
Check for continuity between each of the rear fuse / relay box connector terminals listed in the table and body ground .
Connected control unit
Rear fuse / relay box connector terminal
Repair short to ground in the wire between the rear fuse / relay box and the affected control unit .
Measure the voltage between each of the rear fuse / relay box connector terminals listed in the table and body ground .
Replace the rear fuse / relay box .
Repair short to power in the wire between the rear fuse / relay box and the affected control unit .
Light contamination from other areas should also be prevented .
Disconnect each control unit connectors in the table .
Check for continuity between the under-dash fuse / relay box connector N ( 46D ) terminal No . 22 and body ground .
Repair short to ground in the wire .
Measure the voltage between the under-dash fuse / relay box connector N ( 46D ) terminal No . 22 and body ground .
Faulty MICU , replace the under-dash fuse / relay box .
MICU Internal ( CPU ) Error
MICU Internal ( EEPROM ) Error
MICU Lost Communication with Relay Control Module ( RM Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the MICU and the relay control module .
Downlight display lighting should emphasise the display products and the Brand Wall .
Are DTCs B1158 , B1959 , B2162 , and B2970 also indicated with B1005 ?
MICU Lost Communication with Combination Switch Control Unit ( HLSW Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the MICU and the combination switch control unit .
Are DTCs B1062 , B1155 , and B1957 also indicated with DTC B1007 ?
MICU Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( VSP / NE Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the MICU and the gauge control module .
Are DTCs B1060 , B1205 , B1357 , B1408 , B1805 , and / or B2160 also indicated with DTC B1011 ?
MICU Lost Communication with Rear MICU ( RJC Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the MICU and the rear MICU .
Subtle display lighting may be considered to highlight the reception , information and open sales areas .
Is DTC B1955 indicated with DTC B1012 ?
Do the rear MICU input test .
MICU Lost Communication with Driver ' s MPCS Unit ( ASLOCKSW Message )
MICU Lost Communication with Driver ' s MPCS Unit ( DRLOCKSW Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the MICU and the driver ' s MPCS unit .
Are DTCs B1065 , B1082 , B1356 , B1358 , and / or B1905 also indicated with B1013 and / or B1015 ?
MICU Lost Communication with the Polox unit ( CDS Message )
Is DTC B1011 also indicated with DTC B1032 ?
Check for an open in the wire between the MICU and the gauge control module .
Observe government and / or company power lockout standards .
Similarly , by pulling the needle further in , the mixture may be somewhat poor .
If the circuit is bad , repair the open .
Automatic Lighting Sensor Circuit Malfunction
Check for loose or poor connections between the automatic lighting sensor and the MICU .
Disconnect the automatic lighting sensor 6D connector .
Check for continuity between the under-dash fuse / relay box connector P ( 30P ) terminals No . 14 , No . 27 , and No . 30 and the automatic lighting sensor 6D connector terminals No . 1 , No . 3 , and No . 5 respectively .
Check for continuity between the automatic lighting sensor 6D connector terminals No . 1 and No . 3 .
Repair a short in the wire between the terminals No . 1 and No . 3 .
Reconnect under-dash fuse / relay box connector P ( 30P ) .
Measure the voltage between the automatic lighting sensor 6D connector terminals No . 1 and No . 5 .
CUSTOMER ZONE :
Replace the automatic lighting sensor .
Replace the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Driver ' s MPCS Unit Internal ( EEPROM ) Error
Replace the driver ' s MPCS unit .
Motor oil is a toxic substance .
Dispose of used oil properly .
Contact your local authorities for approved disposal methclip or possible recycling .
Remove the oil filter cartridge and replace it with a new one .
Driver ' s MPCS Unit Lost Communication with MICU ( MICU Message )
Driver ' s MPCS Unit Lost Communication with MICU ( MIRRORSW Message )
Subtle display lighting may be considered to highlight the coffee tables , media areas counters and the accessories / merchandising displays .
Driver ' s MPCS Unit Lost Communication with MICU ( DOORSW Message )
Are DTCs B2155 , B2156 , and / or B2161 indicated ?
Check for loose or poor connections between the driver ' s MPCS unit and the MICU .
Are DTCs B1055 , B1056 , B1157 , B1159 , B1255 , B1955 , B2156 , and / or B2161also indicated ?
Driver ' s MPCS Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( ILLUMI Message )
Driver ' s MPCS Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( VSP / NE Message )
Are DTCs B2157 and / or B2160 indicated ?
Check for loose or poor connections between the driver ' s MPCS unit and the gauge control module .
Are DTCs B1011 , B1060 , B1061 , B1205 , B1206 , B1207 , B1359 , B1906 , B1956 , B2157 , and / or B2160 also indicated ?
Careful consideration should be given to balancing the highlighting of seated areas while mitigating uncomfortable spots .
Driver ' s MPCS Unit Lost Communication with Relay Control Module ( RM Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the driver ' s MPCS unit and the relay control module .
Are DTCs B1005 , B1158 , B1959 , B2162 , and / or B2970 also indicated ?
Driver ' s Power Window Motor Pulse A Error
Open and close the driver ' s power window by using the power window master switch manually .
Does the window motor operate ?
Test the driver ' s power window motor .
Select the POWER WINDOWS from the BODY ELECTRICAL system select menu and enter the DATA LIST .
Check the DETECT / NONE information of the Driver ' s window motor A-phase pulse signal in the DATA LIST .
Does the information indicator display DETECT while the window is moving , and display NONE when the window is stopped ?
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS - GENERAL POWER OVERVIEW :
Is DTC B2176 also indicated ?
Disconnect driver ' s MPCS unit connector B ( 14P ) .
Disconnect the 6P connector from the driver ' s power window motor .
Check for continuity between driver ' s MPCS unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 5 and driver ' s power window motor 6P connector terminal No . 4 .
Check for continuity between driver ' s power window motor 6P connector terminal No . 4 and body ground .
Repair short in the wire .
Replace the driver ' s power window .
Is the motor OK ?
Replace the driver ' s power window motor .
Check for continuity between the driver ' s MPCS unit connector B ( 14P ) terminals No . 3 and No . 6 and the driver ' s power window motor 6P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 respectively .
Specific consideration should be given to the needs of internal fixtures , particularly the needs of fixtures which have recessed lighting ( to wall fixtures ) or pelmet lighting ( reception desks ) , to the needs of ancillary equipment ( televisions , computers , hospitality unit ) , and the choice of power switches .
Check for continuity between the driver ' s power window motor 6P connector terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Driver ' s Power Window Motor Pulse B Error
Open and close the driver ' s power window by using the power window master switch .
Check the DETECT / NONE information of the Driver ' s window motor B-phase pulse signal in the DATA LIST .
Check for continuity between driver ' s MPCS unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 4 and driver ' s power window motor 6P connector terminal No . 5 .
Repair a short in the wire .
Check for continuity between driver ' s MPCS unit connector B ( 14P ) terminals No . 3 and No . 6 and the driver ' s power window motor 6P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 respectively .
Front Passenger ' s Power Window Motor Pulse A Error
Open and close the front passenger ' s power window by using the front passenger ' s power window switch .
Open and close the front passenger ' s power window by using the power window master switch .
Outlets should be conveniently positioned and complement the contemporary design of the facility .
Test the front passenger ' s power window motor .
Check the DETECT / NONE information of the Front passenger ' s window motor A-phase pulse signal in the DATA LIST .
Replace the front passenger ' s MPCS unit .
Disconnect front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector B ( 14P ) .
Disconnect the 6P connector from the passenger ' s power window motor .
Check for continuity between front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 5 and front passenger ' s power window motor 6P connector terminal N º 3 .
Check for continuity between the front passenger ' s power window motor 6P connector terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Replace the front passenger ' s power window motor .
Check for continuity between front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector B ( 14P ) terminals No . 3 and No . 6 and the front passenger ' s power window motor 6P connector terminals No . 5 and No . 6 respectively .
Check for continuity between the front passenger ' s power window motor 6P connector terminal No . 6 and body ground .
Good setup procedures can prevent needless warranty claims and give customers a greater sense of confidence in us and our Dealers .
Front Passenger ' s Power Window Motor Pulse B Error
Check the DETECT / NONE information of the Front passenger ' s window motor B-phase pulse signal in the DATA LIST .
Check for continuity between front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 4 and the front passenger ' s power window motor 6P connector terminal No . 2 .
Driver ' s Door Key Cylinder Switch LOCK / UNLOCK Signal Error
Turn the driver ' s door key cylinder to the LOCK and UNLOCK positions with the ignition key .
Intermittent failure , the driver ' s door key cylinder switch system is fine at this time .
Check for loose or poor connections .
With the driver ' s door key cylinder switch in neutral position , select DOOR LOCK from the BODY ELECTRICAL system select menu , and enter the DATA LIST .
Check the ON / OFF Information of the Driver ' s Door Key Cylinder Switch ( LOCK ) and Driver ' s Door Key Cylinder Switch ( UNLOCK ) in the DATA LIST .
Are both information indicators OFF ?
Design clashes should be avoided .
Turn the driver ' s door key cylinder to the LOCK and UNLOCK positions with the ignition key , and check the ON / OFF information of the Driver ' s Door Key Cylinder Switch ( LOCK ) and Driver ' s Door Key Cylinder Switch ( UNLOCK ) in the DATA LIST .
Are both Driver ' s Door Key Cylinder Switch ( LOCK ) and Driver ' s Door Key Cylinder Switch ( UNLOCK ) information indicators ON at the same time with the door key cylinder switch in the LOCK or UNLOCK position ?
Test the key cylinder switch .
If it is OK , repair the short between the No . 8 BLU and No . 9 LT BLU wires .
Disconnect the driver ' s door lock actuator 10P connector .
Check the ON / OFF information of the Driver ' s Door Key Cylinder Switch ( LOCK ) and Driver ' s Door Key Cylinder Switch ( UNLOCK ) in the DATA LIST .
Faulty driver ' s door key cylinder switch ; replace the driver ' s door lock actuator assembly .
Check for continuity between body ground and the driver ' s door lock actuator 10P connector terminals No . 8 and No . 9 individually .
Driver ' s Door Lock Switch LOCK / UNLOCK Signal Error
Where power is required to feed isolated areas of the facility , power should be placed in floor ducting .
Lock and unlock the driver ' s door with the driver ' s door lock switch .
Check for loose or poor connections between the driver ' s MPCS unit and the driver ' s door lock switch .
With the driver ' s door lock switch in the neutral position , select the DOOR LOCK from the BODY ELECTRICAL system select menu , and enter the DATA LIST .
Check the ON / OFF Information of the Driver ' s Door Lock Switch ( LOCK ) and Driver ' s Door Lock Switch ( UNLOCK ) .
Operate the driver ' s door lock switch in the LOCK and UNLOCK positions , and check the ON / OFF information of the Driver ' s Door Lock Switch ( LOCK ) and Driver ' s Door LOCK Switch ( UNLOCK ) .
Are both Driver ' s Door LOCK Switch ( LOCK ) and Driver ' s Door LOCK Switch ( UNLOCK ) information indicators ON at the same time when the door lock switch is in the LOCK or UNLOCK position ?
Repair short between the wires .
Disconnect the driver ' s door lock switch 6D connector .
Check the ON / OFF information of the Driver ' s Door Lock Switch ( LOCK ) and Driver ' s Door Lock Switch ( UNLOCK ) .
Faulty driver ' s door lock switch .
The following warnings and safety considerations should always be adhered to .
Unsightly isolated power " drops " from ceilings should be avoided .
Check for continuity between body ground and the driver ' s door lock switch 6D connector terminals No . 3 and No . 4 individually .
Driver ' s Door Lock Knob Switch LOCK / UNLOCK Signal Error
Lock and unlock the driver ' s door with the door lock knob switch .
Intermittent failure , the driver ' s door lock knob switch system is fine at this time .
Select DOOR LOCK from the BODY ELECTRICAL system select menu , and enter the DATA LIST .
Check the ON / OFF information of the Driver ' s Door Lock Knob Switch ( LOCK ) and Driver ' s Door Lock Knob Switch ( UNLOCK ) in the DATA LIST .
Does the Driver ' s Door Lock Knob Switch ( LOCK ) information indicate ON and Driver ' s Door Lock Knob Switch ( UNLOCK ) information indicate OFF with the door lock knob switch is in the LOCK position , and does the Driver ' s Door Lock Knob Switch ( LOCK ) information indicate OFF and Driver ' s Door Lock Knob Switch ( UNLOCK ) information indicate ON with the door lock knob switch is in the UNLOCK position ?
Check the ON / OFF information of the Driver ' s Door Knob Switch ( LOCK ) and Driver ' s Door Lock Knob Switch ( UNLOCK ) in the DATA LIST .
Faulty driver ' s door lock knob switch ; replace the driver ' s door lock actuator assembly .
Left Power Mirror Horizontal Sensor Signal Error
It is good practice to incorporate all cabling within tubular containment systems to permit ease of rewiring and future adaptations .
Move the left power mirror in each direction with the power mirror switch .
Select POWER SEAT / POWER MIRROR from the BODY ELECTRICAL SYSTEM SELECT menu , and enter the DATA LIST .
Check the NORMAL / ABNORMAL information of the DRIVER DOOR MIRROR HORIZONTAL SENSOR in the DATA LIST .
Is the information indicator ABNORMAL ?
Disconnect the left power mirror 16P connector .
Check for continuity between driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 10 and left power mirror 16P connector terminal No . 4 .
Check for continuity between left power mirror 16P connector terminal No . 4 and body ground .
Check for continuity between left power mirror 16P connector terminals No . 4 and No . 6 .
Repair short in the wires .
Reconnect driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) .
Power loading ( capacity ) and quantity of power outlets should serve the actual needs of the facility , and the future expansion and flexibility of electrical power .
Measure the voltage between left power mirror 16P connector terminal No . 4 and body ground .
Replace the left power mirror .
Left Power Mirror Vertical Sensor Signal Error
Check the NORMAL / ABNORMAL information of the DRIVER DOOR MIRROR VERTICAL SENSOR in the DATA LIST .
Right Power Mirror Horizontal Sensor Signal Error
Move the right power mirror in each direction with the power mirror switch .
Check the NORMAL / ABNORMAL information of the ASSISTANT DOOR MIRROR HORIZONTAL SENSOR in the DATA LIST .
Disconnect front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 28P ) .
Disconnect the right power mirror 16P connector .
Check for continuity between front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 6 and right power mirror 16P connector terminal No . 3 .
Capacity for external signage , entry elements , sliding entrance doors and other external electrical systems should be provided .
Check for continuity between right power mirror 16P connector terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Check for continuity between right power mirror 16P connector terminals No . 3 and No . 6 .
Reconnect front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 28P ) .
Measure the voltage between right power mirror 16P connector terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Replace the right power mirror .
Right Power Mirror Vertical Sensor Signal Error
Check the NORMAL / ABNORMAL information of the ASSISTANT DOOR MIRROR VERTICAL SENSOR in the DATA LIST .
Front Passenger ' s Door Lock Switch LOCK / UNLOCK Signal Error
Lock and unlock the front passenger ' s door with the door lock switch .
Intermittent failure , the front passenger ' s door lock switch system is fine at this time .
Very careful selection of the circuit layout is required .
With the front passenger ' s door lock switch in the neutral position , select the DOOR LOCK from the BODY ELECTRICAL system select menu , and enter the DATA LIST .
Check the ON / OFF information of the Front Passenger ' s Door Lock Switch ( LOCK ) and Front Passenger ' s Door Lock Switch ( UNLOCK ) .
Operate the front passenger ' s door lock switch in the LOCK and UNLOCK positions , and check the ON / OFF information of the Front Passenger ' s Door Lock Switch ( LOCK ) and Front Passenger ' s Door Lock Switch ( UNLOCK ) .
Are both the Front Passenger ' s Door Lock Switch ( LOCK ) and Front passenger ' s Door Lock Switch ( UNLOCK ) information indicators ON simultaneously when the door lock switch is in the LOCK or UNLOCK position ?
Disconnect the front passenger ' s door lock switch 6D connector .
Replace front passenger ' s door lock switch .
Check for continuity between body ground and the front passenger ' s door lock switch 6D connector terminals No . 3 and No . 4 individually .
Communication Line ( UART Line ) Driver ' s MPCS Unit cannot send UART messages .
Floor sockets should be carefully positioned so as not to clash with the layout of the ceramic tile finish .
Do the front passenger ' s MPCS unit input test , step No . 6 . If OK , replace the front passenger ' s MPCS unit .
Disconnect the moonroof control unit / motor 10P connector .
Replace the moonroof control unit / motor .
Check for continuity between driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 8 and body ground .
Measure the voltage between driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 8 and body ground .
Is there voltage ?
Repair a short to power in the wire .
Communication Line ( UART Line ) Driver ' s MPCS Unit cannot receive UART messages from Front Passenger ' s MPCS Unit .
Open and close the driver ' s and front passenger ' s windows by using the power window master switch .
Outlets should be carefully selected to match the colour of the background ( tile / carpet ) .
Check for continuity between driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 8 and front passenger ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 4 .
Substitute a known-good driver ' s MPCS unit and recheck .
If the DTC goes away , replace the original driver ' s MPCS unit .
If the DTC is still present , replace the front passenger ' s MPCS unit .
Driver ' s Power Window Position Detect Circuit Error
Is DTC B2175 or B2176 also indicated ?
Troubleshoot the indicated DTC ( s ) first .
The system is fine at this time .
Substitute a known-good driver ' s MPCS unit .
Front Passenger ' s Power Window Position Detect Circuit Error
SALES OFFICE :
Open and close the front passenger ' s window by using the front passenger ' s power window switch .
Substitute a known-good front passenger ' s MPCS unit .
Replace the front passenger ' s window motor .
Front Passenger ' s MPCS Unit Internal ( EEPROM ) Error
Rear MICU Lost Communication with MICU ( MICU Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the rear fuse / relay box and the MICU .
Are DTCs B1055 , B1056 , B1057 , B1157 , B1159 , B1180 , B1255 , B1955 , B2155 , B2156 , and / or B2161 indicated ?
Rear MICU Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( A / T Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the rear MICU and the gauge control module .
Particular consideration should be given to the needs of computer and powered office equipment .
Are DTCs B1011 , B1061 , and B1906 also indicated ?
Rear MICU Lost Communication with Combination Switch Control Unit ( HLSW Message )
Rear MICU Lost Communication with Combination Switch Control Unit ( WIPSW Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the rear MICU and the combination switch control unit .
Are DTCs B1007 , B1062 , B1063 , B1155 , B1156 , B1957 , B1958 , and / or B2969 all indicated ?
Rear MICU Lost Communication with Relay Control Module ( RM Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the rear MICU and the relay control module .
Are DTCs B1005 , B1058 , B1959 , B2162 , and / or B2970 all indicated ?
Power Seat Control Unit Internal ( EEPROM ) Error
Replace the power seat control unit .
Outlets should be discreetly and safely positioned .
Power Seat Control Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( VSP / NE Message )
Power Seat Control Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( A / T Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the power seat control unit and the gauge control module .
Are DTCs B1011 , B1060 , B1061 , B1205 , B1357 , B1359 , B1408 , B1805 , B1806 , B1906 , and B2160 also indicated ?
Power Seat Control Unit Lost Communication with MICU ( MICU Message )
Power Seat Control Unit Lost Communication with MICU ( MIRRORSW Message )
Power Seat Control Unit Lost Communication with MICU ( DOORSW Message )
Check for loose or poor connection between the power seat control unit and the MICU .
Are DTCs B1055 , B1057 , B1157 , B1159 , B1255 , B1355 , B1955 , B2155 , B2156 , and B2161 also indicated ?
Do the power seat control unit input test .
Lockout instructions are located on the controls cabinet panel and in Figures 1.6 -1 , Figure 1.6 -4 .
Particular consideration should be given around children ’ s play areas and media areas .
Power Seat Control Unit Lost Communication with Driver ' s MPCS Unit ( MEMSW Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the power seat control unit and the driver ' s MPCS unit .
Are DTCs B1013 , B1015 , B1065 , B1182 , B1356 , B1358 , and B1905 also indicated ?
Power Seat Slide Motor Pulse Error
DTC B1825 is stored when the slide switch is operated more than 1 second after the seat slides to the most forward or most backward position even when the system is fine .
Operate the power seat adjustment switch in all directions for more than 1 second each .
Intermittent failure , the slide position sensor is OK at this time .
Check for loose or poor connections at the power seat control unit connector .
Troubleshoot DTC B1836 first .
Are DTCs B1825 , B1827 and / or B1828 also indicated ?
COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS
Operate the slide switch for 2 seconds , and check the slide motor operation .
Does the slide motor run smoothly ?
Disconnect power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) .
Disconnect the slide position sensor 4P connector .
Check for continuity between the power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 11 and No . 29 and the slide position sensor 4P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 3 respectively .
Check for continuity between body ground and the power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 11 .
Reconnect power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) .
Measure the voltage between the slide position sensor 4P connector terminals No . 2 ( + ) and No . 3 ( − ) .
Faulty slide position sensor , replace the slide motor .
If there is no voltage , replace the power seat control unit .
The provision , use and requirements of communication systems evolve at exponential rates .
If there is battery voltage , repair a short in the wire ( sensor line ) .
Disconnect the 4P connector from the front up-down position sensor and the rear up-down position sensor , then disconnect the recline motor / lumbar support motor 8P connector .
Check for continuity between body ground and the slide position sensor 4P connector terminal No . 1 .
Measure the voltage between the power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 15 and No . 29 .
Is there battery voltage when the slide switch is operated ?
Replace the slide motor / position sensor .
Disconnect power seat control unit connector B ( 18P ) .
Disconnect the slide motor 2P connector .
Check for continuity between the power seat control unit connector B ( 18P ) terminals No . 7 and No . 17 and the slide motor 2P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 respectively .
Dealers should consider not only the current needs of the facility , but also a system that permits flexible and adaptable use and sufficient capacity for future expansion .
Check for continuity between body ground and the slide motor 2P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 individually .
Test the slide motor .
Power Seat Front Up-down Motor Pulse Error
DTC B1826 is stored when the front up-down switch is operated more than 1 second after the seat moves to the most up or most down position , even when the system is fine .
Check for the DTCs with the Polox system .
Intermittent failure , the front up-down motor / position sensor is OK at this time .
Check for loose or poor connections at the power seat control unit connectors .
Operate the front up-down switch for 2 seconds , and check the front up-down motor operation .
Does the front up-down motor run smoothly ?
Systems which require specific consideration include telecommunications , computer , data , public address and television systems .
Disconnect the front up-down position sensor 4P connector .
Check for continuity between the power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 12 and No . 29 and the front up-down position sensor 4P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 3 respectively .
Check for continuity between the power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 12 and body ground .
Measure the voltage between the front up-down position sensor 4P connector terminals No . 2 ( + ) and No . 3 ( − ) .
Faulty front up-down position sensor , replace the front up-down motor .
Disconnect the 4P connector from the slide position sensor and the rear up-down position sensor , then disconnect the recline motor / lumbar support motor 8P connector .
Check for continuity between body ground and the front up-down position sensor 4P connector terminal No . 1 .
Is there battery voltage when the front up-down switch is operated ?
Replace the front up-down motor / position sensor .
Technology exists which can integrate most systems via a single installation rather than a fragmented system .
Disconnect the front up-down motor 2P connector .
Check for continuity between the power seat control unit connector B ( 18P ) terminals No . 6 and No . 16 and the front up-down motor 2P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 respectively .
Check for continuity between body ground and the front up-down motor 2P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 individually .
Test the front up-down motor .
Power Seat Rear Up-down Motor Pulse Error
DTC B1827 is stored when the rear up-down switch is operated more than 1 second after the seat moves to the most up or most down position , even when the system is fine .
Intermittent failure , the rear up-down motor / position sensor is OK at this time .
Are DTCs B1825 , B1826 , and / or B1828 also indicated ?
Operate the rear up-down switch for 2 seconds , and check the rear up-down motor operation .
Does the rear up-down motor run smoothly ?
With sufficient foresight , a system can be installed which is sufficiently discreet and flexible to cater to all the communication needs for the foreseeable future .
Disconnect the rear up-down position sensor 4P connector .
Check for continuity between the power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 15 and No . 29 and the rear up-down position sensor 4P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 3 respectively .
Disconnect the 4P connector from the slide position sensor and the front up-down position sensor , then disconnect the recline motor / lumbar support motor 8P connector .
Measure the voltage between the rear up-down position sensor 4P connector terminals No . 2 ( + ) and No . 3 ( − ) .
Faulty rear up-down position sensor , replace the rear up-down motor .
Check for continuity between body ground and the rear up-down position sensor 4P connector terminal No . 1 .
Is there battery voltage when the rear up-down switch is operated ?
Replace the rear up-down motor / position sensor .
Disconnect the rear up-down motor 2P connector .
Specifically the Dealer should consider installing a communication network which will manage all internal and external communications .
Check for continuity between the power seat control unit connector B ( 18P ) terminals No . 2 and No . 10 and the rear up-down motor 2P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 respectively .
Check for continuity between body ground and the rear up-down motor 2P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 individually .
Test the rear up-down motor .
Power Seat Recline Motor Pulse Error
DTC B1828 is stored when the recline switch is operated more than 1 second after the seat back reclines to the most forward or most backward position , even when the system is fine .
Intermittent failure , the recline motor / position sensor is OK at this time .
Operate the recline switch for 2 seconds , and check the recline motor operation .
Does the recline motor run smoothly ?
Disconnect the recline motor / lumbar support motor subharness 8P connector .
For example :
Check for continuity between the power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 15 and No . 29 and the recline motor / lumbar support motor subharness 8P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 8 respectively .
Disconnect the 4P connector from the slide position sensor , the front up-down position sensor , and the rear up-down position sensor .
Measure the voltage between the recline motor / lumbar support motor subharness 8P connector terminals No . 3 ( + ) and No . 2 ( − ) .
Check for an open / short in the wire of the recline motor / lumbar support motor subharness .
If the harness is OK , replace the recline motor / position sensor .
If there is battery voltage , repair short in the wire ( sensor line ) .
Check for continuity between body ground and the recline motor / lumbar support subharness 8P connector terminal No . 8 .
Is there battery voltage when the recline switch is operated ?
Replace the recline motor / position sensor .
Check for continuity between the power seat control unit connector B ( 18P ) terminals No . 9 and No . 11 and the recline motor / lumbar support motor subharness 8P connector terminals No . 4 and No . 5 respectively .
Reliable and robust server and communications hub with sufficient future capacity and data file management / recovery facility .
Check for continuity between body ground and the recline motor / lumbar support motor subharness 8P connector terminals No . 4 and No . 5 individually .
Test the recline motor .
A / T P Signal and VSS Signal Mismatch
Test drive at 6 mph ( 10 km / h ) for 10 seconds .
Check the P indicator of the A / T gear position indicator and the MIL .
Does the P indicator and MIL come on ?
Troubleshoot the automatic transmission system .
Check for the gauge control module DTCs with the Polox system .
Troubleshoot the gauge control module .
Power Tilt / Telescopic Steering Switch Signal Input Error
Read and observe all signs posted on or near the system .
Fibreoptic backbone , which will mitigate delays when in maximum use and flexibility for future expansion .
Operate the tilt / telescopic switch in each direction for more than 3 seconds each .
Intermittent failure , the power tilt / telescopic steering system is fine at this time .
Check for loose or poor connections at the tilt / telescopic switch connector and at the power tilt / telescopic control unit connector .
Test the power tilt / telescopic steering switch .
Is the switch OK ?
Replace the power tilt / telescopic steering switch .
Disconnect power tilt / telescopic steering control unit connector A ( 16P ) .
Disconnect the power tilt / telescopic steering switch 13P connector .
Check for continuity between body ground and power tilt / telescopic steering switch 13P connector terminals No . 1 , No . 3 , No . 6 , No . 7 , and No . 10 individually .
Check for continuity between power tilt / telescopic steering control unit connector A ( 16P ) terminals No . 7 , No . 6 , No . 10 , No . 14 , and No . 15 and the power tilt / telescopic steering switch 13P connector terminals No . 1 , No . 7 , No . 3 , No . 10 , and No . 6 respectively .
Concealed cable management systems with a capacity for 4 points / user ( 1 voice , 1 data , 1 fax , 1 spare ) .
Replace the power tilt / telescopic steering control unit .
Power Seat Position Sensor Circuit Short
Operate the power seat adjustment switch in all direction for more than 1 second each .
Check for loose or poor connections at the power sear control unit connectors .
Disconnect the 4P connectors from the slide position sensor , the front up-down position sensor , and the rear up-down position sensor , and disconnect the 8P connector from the recline motor / lumbar support motor subharness .
Check for continuity between body ground ( motor body ) and the terminal No . 1 of the slide position sensor , the front up-down position sensor , and the rear up-down position sensor .
Replace the motor / position sensor that has continuity .
Check for continuity between body ground ( seat frame ) and the terminal No . 8 of the recline motor / lumbar support motor subharness 8P connector .
Check for a short to ground in the wire of the recline motor / lumbar support motor subharness .
If the harness is bad , repair it , if the harness is OK , replace the recline motor / position sensor .
Layout to permit easy recabling ( minimise bends ) .
Driving Position Memory Recall Timeout
Move the steering position to the full tilt up and full telescopic out positions with the power tilt / telescopic steering switch .
Move both power mirrors to the full up and full left positions with the power mirror switch .
Move the power seat to the full front up and full rear up positions , then slide the seat all the way back and completely recline the seat-back backward with the power seat adjustment switch .
Put this seating position into memory with the driving position memory switch .
Manually move the seat away from the position just memorized .
Recall the memory position with the driving position memory switch .
Wait for 3 minutes .
Are any DTCs other than B1837 indicated ?
Go to the indicated DTC ' s troubleshooting .
Digital cable installations ( category 6 or better ) which permits flexible use ( voice or data ) and a speedy transfer of data .
Clear the DTCs with the Polox system , and wait for 6 seconds .
Move the motors shown one at a time , and check the operation time .
Steering tilt motor up and down
Steering telescopic motor pulled and pushed
Power mirror actuator ( up , down , left , right )
Power seat ( slide forward / backward , recline forward / backward , front up-down , rear up-down )
Does any motor fail to run smoothly ?
Go to the failed motor test :
Power tilt / telescopic motor test .
Power mirror actuator test .
Use of high-quality hardware and robust software .
Power seat motor test .
If the motor is OK , check the engagement of the motor gear .
Go to the each input test :
Power seat control unit input test .
Power tilt / telescopic steering control unit input test .
Driver ' s MPCS unit input test .
Tilt Motor Pulse Error
Operate the tilt switch in each direction for more than 1 second .
Operate the tilt switch for 2 seconds , and check the tilt motor operation .
Does the tilt motor run smoothly ?
Digital or cordless telephone handsets .
Disconnect power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) .
Disconnect the tilt motor / position sensor 8P connector .
Check for continuity between power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) terminals No . 4 , No . 12 , and No . 16 and tilt motor / position sensor 8P connector terminals No . 6 , No . 7 , and No . 8 respectively .
Check for continuity between body ground and power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) terminals No . 4 and No . 12 individually .
Reconnect power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) .
Measure the voltage between tilt motor / position sensor 8P connector terminals No . 6 and No . 8 and between terminals No . 7 and No . 8 .
Faulty tilt motor / position sensor , replace the tilt motor assembly .
If there is no voltage , replace the power tilt / telescopic control unit .
If there is battery voltage , repair short in the wire .
Check for continuity between power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) terminals No . 2 and No . 16 and tilt motor / position sensor 8P connector terminals No . 5 and No . 8 respectively .
Isolated communications room to house network server and hub .
Disconnect the telescopic motor / position sensor 6P connector .
Check for continuity between tilt motor / position sensor 8P connector terminal No . 5 and body ground .
Measure the voltage between power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) terminals No . 2 and No . 16 .
Is there battery voltage when the tilt switch is operated ?
Replace the power tilt / telescopic control unit .
Disconnect power tilt / telescopic control unit connector B ( 8P ) .
Check for continuity between power tilt / telescopic control unit connector B ( 8P ) terminals No . 7 and No . 8 and tilt motor / position sensor 8P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 3 respectively .
Check for continuity between body ground and tilt motor / position sensor 8P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 3 individually .
Test the tilt motor .
Replace the tilt motor / position sensor .
LIFT INSTALLATION
Telescopic Motor Pulse Error
Operate the telescopic switch in each direction for more than 1 second .
Operate the telescopic switch for 2 seconds , and check the telescopic motor operation .
Check for continuity between power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) terminals No . 5 , No . 13 , and No . 16 and telescopic motor / position sensor 6P connector terminals No . 4 , No . 5 , and No . 6 respectively .
Measure the voltage between telescopic motor / position sensor 6P connector terminals No . 4 and No . 6 and between terminals No . 5 and No . 6 .
Faulty telescopic motor / position sensor , replace the telescopic motor assembly .
If there is battery voltage , repair a short in the wire .
Check for continuity between power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) terminals No . 2 and No . 16 and telescopic motor / position sensor 6P connector terminals No . 3 and No . 6 respectively .
Check for continuity between telescopic motor / position sensor 6P connector terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Is there battery voltage when the telescopic switch is operated ?
In multi-storey large facilities , the incorporation of a lift should always be considered .
Check for continuity between power tilt / telescopic control unit connector B ( 8P ) terminals No . 4 and No . 6 and telescopic motor / position sensor 6P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 respectively .
Check for continuity between body ground and telescopic motor / position sensor 6P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 individually .
Test the telescopic motor .
Replace the telescopic motor / position sensor .
Power Tilt / Telescopic Position Sensor Power Supply Circuit ( SVCC Line ) Short
Operate the tilt / telescopic switch in each direction for more than 1 second .
Check for continuity between power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) terminal No . 2 and body ground .
At the sensor side , check for continuity between telescopic motor / position sensor 6P connector terminal No . 3 y la toma a tierra de la carrocer í a ( motor body ) .
At the sensor side , check for continuity between tilt motor / position sensor 8P connector terminal N º 5 and body ground ( motor body ) .
Power Seat Control Unit Lost Communication with Power Tilt / Telescopic Steering Control Unit ( UART line )
Particular consideration must be given to the disabled user .
Move the tilt / telescopic steering in each direction with the tilt / telescopic switch .
Does the tilt / telescopic steering move in each direction smoothly ?
Check for continuity between the power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 39 and power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) terminal No . 11 .
Substitute a known-good power tilt / telescopic control unit and recheck .
If DTC B1843 is still indicated , replace the power seat control unit .
Disconnect power tilt / telescopic control unit connectors A ( 16P ) and B ( 8P ) .
Measure the voltage between power tilt / telescopic control unit connector A ( 16P ) terminal No . 9 and connector B ( 8P ) terminal No . 1 , and between connector A ( 16P ) terminal No . 1 and connector B ( 8P ) terminal No . 1 .
Do the power tilt / telescopic control unit input test .
Power Seat Slide Switch Circuit Malfunction
Operate the slide switch in each direction for more than 1 second .
Pre-position
Never touch or attempt to stop moving machinery parts with your hands or makeshift devices .
When considering the incorporation of the lift , as well as the capacity and performance of the lift , specific consideration should be given to the internal and external finishes of the lift car .
Disconnect the power seat adjustment switch 12P connector .
Check for continuity between body ground and the power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals No . 1 , No . 7 , and No . 27 individually .
Check for continuity between these power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminals :
No . 1 and No . 7
Test the power seat adjustment switch .
Replace the power seat adjustment switch .
Power Seat Recline Switch Circuit Malfunction
Operate the recline switch in each direction for more than 1 second .
Power Seat Front Up-Down Switch Circuit Malfunction
Operate the front up-down switch in each direction for more than 1 second .
The finishes should complement the contemporary finishes of the facility .
Power Seat Rear Up-Down Switch Circuit Malfunction
Operate the rear up-down switch in each direction for more than 1 second .
If the ABS is normal , it stays off .
If something is wrong with the ABS , the indicator comes on and remains lit .
When the indicator light is on , the ABS does not function but if the ABS fails , the conventional brake system will still work normally .
For more detailed information about ABS , see the Anti-lock Brake System ( ABS ) section in the " How to Ride the Motorcycle " chapter .
This car is equipped with an immobilizer system to protect your motorcycle from theft .
Check for loose or poor connections at the MICU and B-CAN connected units in the table .
Under-dash fuse / relay box connector
B-CAN connected unit connector
Furthermore the siting of the lift should be convenient to the intended users .
Connector D ( 17P ) terminal No . 11
Under-hood fuse / relay box connector E ( 14P ) terminal No . 1
Connector N ( 46D ) terminal No . 22
Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminal No . 5
Combination switch control unit 8P connector terminal No . 4
Connector J ( 21P ) terminal No . 4
Driver ' s MPCS unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 28
Connector X ( 39P ) terminal No . 27
Immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector terminal No . 4
Climate control unit 40P connector terminal No . 4
Local codes to be complied with .
Audio unit connector C ( 24P ) terminal No . 23
HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector terminal No . 19
Connector G ( 6P ) terminal No . 1
Power seat control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 40
Power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) terminal No . 7
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) terminal No . 5
Rear MICU ( rear fuse / relay box connector B ( 34P )
Troubleshoot DTC B1000 .
Relay Control Module Internal ( CPU ) Error
Relay Control Module Internal ( EEPROM ) Error
E XTERNAL LIGHTING
Is DTC B1051 or B1052 indicated ?
Faulty relay control module , replace the under-hood fuse / relay box .
Relay Control Module Lost Communication with MICU ( MICU Message )
Relay Control Module Lost Communication with MICU ( ALARM Message )
Relay Control Module Lost Communication with MICU ( DOORSW Message )
Is DTC B1055 , B1056 , or B1057 indicated ?
Check for loose or poor connection between the relay control module and the MICU .
Are DTCs B1055 , B1056 , B1057 , B1157 , B1159 , B1180 , B1255 , B1955 , B2155 , B2156 , and B2161 all indicated ?
Relay Control Module Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( VPS / NE Message )
Relay Control Module Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( A / T Message )
External lighting should also be designed to supplement operational site safety measures and increase security provisions by deterring intruders .
Check for loose or poor connections between the relay control module and the gauge control module .
Relay Control Module Lost Communication with Combination Switch Control Unit ( HLSW Message )
Relay Control Module Lost Communication with Combination Switch Control Unit ( WIPSW Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the relay control module and the combination switch control unit .
Are DTCs B1007 , B1062 , B1063 , B1155 , B1156 , B1957 , B1958 , and B2969 all indicated ?
Relay Control Module Lost Communication with Driver ' s MPCS Unit ( DRLOCKSW Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the relay control module and the driver ' s MPCS unit .
Are DTCs B1013 , B1015 , B1065 , B1182 , and B1905 all indicated ?
Headlight Switch Back-up Circuit Malfunction
Illumination of the building should be avoided in order to ensure illuminated external signs are dominant .
Turn the headlight switch ON for 5 seconds and OFF .
Select BODY ELECTRICAL system select menu , then enter the DATA LIST menu .
Check the ON / OFF information of the HEADLIGHT BACK-UP with the Polox system .
Is OFF indicated ?
Check for a short in the WHT wire between the combination switch control unit and the relay control module ( H / L BACK-UP line ) or between the combination switch control unit and the MICU , if the harness is OK , replace the combination switch control unit .
Is ON indicated ?
Go to the relay control module input test and check for a poor ground , if the GND line is OK , replace the under-hood fuse / relay box .
Check for an open in the wire between the combination switch control unit and the relay control module ( H / L BACK-UP line ) or between the combination switch control unit and the MICU , if the wire is OK , replace the combination switch control unit .
Windshield Wiper Switch Back-up Circuit Malfunction
Turn the windshield wiper switch ON for 5 seconds and OFF .
INCOMING EXTERNAL SERVICES
Check the ON / OFF information of the FR WIPER BACK-UP with the Polox system .
Check for a short in the wire between the combination switch control unit and the relay control module ( WIPER BACK-UP line ) , if the harness is OK , replace the combination switch control unit .
Turn the windshield wiper switch ON .
Check for an open in the wire between the combination switch control unit and the relay control module ( WIPER BACK-UP line ) , if the wire is OK , replace the combination switch control unit .
Windshield Wiper Auto Switch Circuit Malfunction
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and the windshield wiper switch ON .
Check the windshield wiper operation .
Does the wiper work ?
Turn the windshield wiper switch ON , and then OFF .
All incoming external services ideally should be below ground .
Check the ON / OFF information of the FR WIPER AS with the Polox system .
Is OFF indicated when the motor is stopped , and ON intermittently indicated when the motor runs ?
Disconnect the windshield wiper motor 6D connector .
Disconnect under-hood fuse / relay box connector A ( 4P ) .
Check for continuity between the windshield wiper motor 6D connector terminal No . 4 and the under-hood fuse / relay box connector A ( 4P ) terminal No . 2 .
Replace the fuse ( s ) and recheck the system .
Replace the fuse and recheck the system .
Do the wiper motor test .
Where these are ab-above ground , the siting should be carefully considered to avoid unsightly views of the landscape .
Does the wiper motor run normally ?
Replace the windshield wiper motor and recheck .
Check for continuity between the windshield wiper motor 6D connector terminals No . 3 and No . 5 and the under-hood fuse / relay box connector A ( 4P ) terminals No . 3 and No . 4 .
Check for continuity between the windshield wiper motor 6D connector terminal No . 2 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire or poor ground ( G401 ) .
Ignition Key Switch Circuit Malfunction
Disconnect under-hood fuse / relay box connector D ( 10P ) .
Measure the voltage between the under-hood fuse / relay box connector D ( 10P ) terminal No . 7 and body ground .
Substitute a known-good under-hood fuse / relay box and recheck .
Check for continuity between the under-hood fuse / relay box connector D ( 10P ) terminal No . 7 and body ground .
Do not attempt to lift heavy parts or work pieces without a crane or loading assistance .
CONSIDERATIONS
After repairing , replace the No . 21 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Disconnect under-dash fuse / relay box connector D ( 17P ) .
Connect the under-dash fuse / relay box connector D ( 17P ) terminal No . 6 and body ground with a jumper wire .
Substitute a known-good under-dash fuse / relay box and recheck .
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with Active Damper System Control Unit ( ADS Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the gauge control module and the active damper control unit .
Check for active damper system DTCs with the Polox system .
Disconnect gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) .
Disconnect active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) .
SUBSTRUCTURE :
Connect gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) connector terminals No . 6 and No . 12 to body ground with jumper wires .
Check for continuity between body ground and active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminals No . 1 and No . 8 respectively .
Substitute a known-good active damper control unit , and recheck .
If the indication goes away , replace the original active damper control unit .
Carefully pry the switch out from the dashboard .
Disconnect the 6D connector ( A ) from the headlight washer switch ( B ) .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the bulb or the headlight washer switch .
Test the motor by connecting battery power to the headlight washer motor 2P connector terminal No . 1 and ground to the terminal No . 2 . The motor should run .
Install the washer motor in the reverse order of removal .
Remove the front bumper , and disconnect the headlight washer tubes from the washer motor .
EXPOSED CONCRETE GROUND SLABS
Disconnect the headlight washer tube ( A ) from the headlight washer nozzle ( B ) .
Remove the headlight washer nozzle cover .
Remove the two screws and the headlight washer nozzle .
Install the nozzle in the reverse order of removal .
After installation , check the headlight washer operation .
Daytime Running Lights System Error ( Canada )
Daytime Running Lights System Error ( USA )
Turn the headlight switch OFF , and apply the parking brake .
Release the parking brake .
Turn the ignition and headlight switches OFF .
Careful consideration should be given to prevent a clash of joints between the structural concrete slab and the finished ceramic tile floor .
Replace the blown fuse and recheck .
If the fuse blows again , repair short in the wire between the under-hood fuse / relay box and the appropriate daytime running lights .
Check the daytime running light bulbs .
Are the daytime running light bulbs OK ?
Replace the faulty bulb .
Disconnect under-hood fuse / relay box connector G ( 4P ) .
Disconnect each daytime running light 2P connector .
For each daytime running light , check for continuity between daytime running light 2P connector terminal No . 2 and under-hood fuse / relay box connector G ( 4P ) terminals No . 1 and No . 2 respectively .
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 1 of each daytime running light 2P connector and body ground .
Replace the relay control module .
STRUCTURAL FRAME
Repair open in the BLK wire or poor ground ( G201-right side , G301-left side ) .
The automatic dimming inside mirror has a front-facing lux level sensor ( A ) , rear-facing lux level sensors ( B ) , and a control unit .
The control unit receives signals from each sensor .
Based on the difference between the two lux levels ( the light outside the vehicle and the light from the headlights of the other vehicle , etc . ) , the control unit controls the electro-chromic gel to reduce glare .
This dimming function is canceled when the transmission is in reverse , or when the automatic dimming off switch is turned OFF .
Remove the roof console .
Measure the voltage between terminal No . 2 and body ground .
If there is less than 0,5 V , go to .
If there is more than 0,5 V , check for :
Measure the voltage between terminal No . 3 and body ground with the transmission range switch in R position .
The structural grid should take due consideration of the structural interface of the external elements , in particular louvres , entry elements and showroom glazing .
If there is battery voltage , replace the mirror assembly .
Faulty transmission range switch .
Compass Operation ( Canada models , without navigation )
The electrical compass unit shows the direction of the vehicle on the center information display .
Compass operation can be affected by driving near power lines or stations , across bridges , through tunnels , over railroad crossings , past large vehicles , or driving near large objects that can cause a magnetic disturbance .
If you see ' ' in the direction display , the compass is self-calibrating .
The compass may need to be manually calibrated after exposure to a strong magnetic field .
If the compass seems to be continually showing the wrong direction , and is not self-calibrating , complete the compass calibration procedure , on the next page .
In most areas , there is a variation between magnetic north and true north .
Zone setting is required so the compass can compensate for this variation .
Any exposed steelwork should be carefully prepared and decorated to match the colour palette .
To check and select the zone set into the compass , complete the compass zone setting procedure on the next page :
Self-diagnosis Function
Press and hold the SET ' ' button , the ' ' arrow down button , and the ' ' arrow up button , then turn the ignition switch ON ( II ) .
Release all buttons after 1 second .
Within 3 seconds , press and release the SET ' ' button , press and release the ' ' arrow button , and finally press and release the ' ' arrow up button .
The self-diagnosis function begins with a blank display .
Press and release the ' ' arrow up button to scroll through the three modes .
Press the SET ' ' button to exit the self-diagnosis function .
Compass Adjustment Mode menu
The compass zone setting and the compass calibration can be done in the compass adjustment mode .
All exposed concrete frames should be fair-finished to receive decoration .
Each adjustment can be done independently from one another .
Compass Zone Selection
During compass zone selection , if no buttons are pressed for 10 seconds , the SET ' ' button , the ' ' arrow up button , or the ' ' arrow down button , the compass adjustment mode will cancel and the display will return to normal display .
You should do this procedure in an open area away from buildings , power lines , and other vehicles .
Zone selection is required so the compass can compensate for this variation .
To check and select the zone , do this :
Press and hold the SET ' ' button for 5 seconds until the Clock display changes ZON ? N ' ' ( clock adjustment mode will be started after the 2 seconds ) .
Press the ' ' arrow down button .
ZON ? Y ' ' will be displayed .
Press the SET ' ' button .
Clashes with internal fixtures should also be considered .
The display will show which zone is currently selected .
Find the zone for your area on the map .
If the zone is incorrect , press the ' ' arrow down button to cycle the count down , or press the ' ' arrow up button to cycle the count up .
Once the correct zone is displayed , continue to .
Press the SET ' ' button to set the zone selection .
Press and hold the SET ' ' button for about 5 seconds to exit the zone selection menu and return the display to normal .
Compass Calibration
During compass calibration , if no buttons are pressed for 10 seconds ( the SET ' ' button , the ' ' arrow up button , or the ' ' arrow down button ) the compass adjustment mode will cancel and the display will return to the normal display .
If you see ' ' in the compass display and CAL ' ' and ' ' are shown in the calendar display , the compass is self-calibrating .
If the compass seems to be continuity showing the wrong direction and is not self-calibrating , do the following .
Ensure that spans for louvres conform to structural grid whenever possible .
Press and hold the SET ' ' button for 5 seconds until the Clock display changes to ZON ? N ' ' ( clock adjustment mode will be started after the first 2 seconds ) .
CAL ? N ' ' will be displayed .
At this point , pressing the SET ' ' button will exit the calibration mode .
CAL ? Y ' ' will be displayed .
The compass display will change to ' ' and CAL ' ' and ' ' are shown .
Drive the vehicle slowly in two complete circles .
When the display goes from ' ' to an actual heading , the unit is calibrated and the display returns to normal .
Remove the dashboard upper visor .
Remove the four screws , and the center information display ( A ) .
Disconnect the 12P connector ( B ) from the center information display .
Avoid Risks - Always avoid unnecessary risks .
The structural grid to the showroom should be column-free to permit open sight lines internally throughout the showroom and provide maximum flexibility of use .
Reconnect the connector to the center information display , turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and do these input tests at the following connector .
If all input tests prove OK , the center information display must be faulty ; replace it .
Test Condition
Check for continuity between the terminal No . 10 and PCM connector A ( 49P ) terminal No . 30 .
Disconnect the 6P connector ( A ) from the electrical compass unit ( B ) .
Reconnect the connector to the electrical compass unit , turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and do these input tests at the following connector .
If all input tests prove OK , the electrical compass unit must be faulty ; replace it .
After purchasing , maintenance is vitally important and must not be neglected .
Faulty center information display
Remove the tailgate trim panel .
Siting of columns at the external fa ç ade should maximise sales sight lines from inside the showroom to the external areas and maximises the visibility of the internal vehicle displays and Brand Wall from the car parking .
The maintenance is always vitally important and must not be neglected .
With a basic knowledge of mechanics and the proper use of tools , you should be able to carry out many of the maintenance items described in this chapter .
If you lack proper experience or doubt your ability , all adjustments , maintenance , and repair work should be completed by a qualified technician .
Disconnect the 3P connector ( A ) from the tailgate outer handle switch ( B ) .
Check for continuity between the tailgate outer handle switch 3P connector terminals No . 2 and No . 3 .
There should be continuity when the tailgate outer handle is pulled .
There should be no continuity when the tailgate outer handle is released .
If the continuity is not as specified , remove the two bolts and the tailgate outer handle switch ( A ) .
Without Power Tailgate
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the tailgate release actuator ( B ) .
The structural grid to the customer zone should be column-free to maximise sight line from the entrance / showroom and from customer seating areas across the showroom .
Check the actuator by connecting battery power to the terminal No . 2 and ground to the terminal No . 1 . To prevent damage to the actuator , apply battery voltage only momentarily .
The actuator should work .
If the actuator does not work , replace the tailgate latch assembly .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the tailgate latch switch ( B ) .
With the tailgate open , there should be continuity .
With the tailgate closed , there should be no continuity .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the latch assembly .
The power tailgate can be opened and closed automatically by operating the dashboard switch , outer handle switch ( for open ) , inside tailgate switch ( for close ) or the keyless transmitter .
The power tailgate has two safety functions for safeguarding passengers :
obstruction detection , and fall-down detection .
WORKSHOP :
Basic Operation
The power tailgate can be opened by operating the driver ' s switch , outer handle , or the keyless transmitter under the following conditions :
Tailgate is fully closed .
Driver ' s door or Passenger ' s door lock knob switch is in UNLOCKED .
The remote unlock button is pressed twice , and then the tailgate button is pressed and held for 2 seconds ( unless customized setting is set to unlock all doors ) .
Shift lever is in Park position .
Vehicle speed is less than 1,2 mph ( 2 km / h ) .
Closer unit detects the neutral position .
Battery voltage ( VBU ) is more than 11 V .
System is not in fail-safe mode .
The structural clearance height should take due consideration of :
CLOSE :
The power tailgate can be closed by operating the driver ' s door tailgate switch , inside tailgate switch , or the keyless transmitter under the following conditions :
Tailgate is fully open .
Pinch sensor detects no obstruction .
Obstruction Detection Function
If any obstruction is detected while the tailgate is automatically opening or closing , the tailgate will stop and the reverse operation is activated .
An obstruction is detected by the tailgate pinch sensor and the pulser in the drive unit .
If this operation is activated twice , the tailgate will close automatically .
If the obstruction detection function detects any obstruction several times during this fall-down detection function , the tailgate stops moving .
If the tailgate falls repeatedly , replace the tailgate support strut .
Full lift height of equipment
Auto open action completed
Tailgate falling is detected
Clutch reconnect when falling is detected
Auto open action ( power tailgate motor reverse action )
Close function activated from fully open position
Power Tailgate Buzzer Beep Pattern
Beep Pattern
When the tailgate starts to open automatically
Beeps 1 time
When the tailgate starts to close automatically
Attached building services
When the reverse operation is started after the tailgate has detected any obstruction
Beeps 3 times
When the reverse operation is started by switch operation
When the vehicle speed exceeds 1,2 mph ( 2 km / h ) while the tailgate is opening automatically
Beeps intermittently until the condition is corrected
When the operating time is over
When the vehicle speed exceeds 1,2 mph ( 2 km / h ) while the tailgate is closing automatically
When the tailgate is not fully-latched , and the following condition is met :
The shift lever is any position other than P , and brake pedal position switch and parking brake switch is OFF , and the vehicle speed exceeds 1,2 mph ( 2 km / h ) .
When the tailgate fall-down detection function is activated
DOOR OPENINGS SHOULD CONSIDER :
Beeps continuously
Before testing the power tailgate control unit , troubleshoot the multiplex integrated control unit first , using B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Remove the left rear pillar trim .
Disconnect power tailgate control unit connectors A ( 6D ) , B ( 20P ) , and C ( 14P ) .
Inspect all the connector and socket terminals to be sure they are all making good contact .
If the input tests prove OK , go to .
Connect B10 and B3 terminals with a jumper wire :
The beeper should sound .
Faulty beeper
Reconnect all connectors to the power tailgate control unit , and make these input tests at the appropriate connector .
Turning circles
If the test indicates a problem , find and correct the cause , then recheck the system .
If the input test proves OK , replace the power tailgate control unit .
Blown No . 11 ( 40 A ) fuse in the rear fuse / relay box
Blown No . 3 ( 60 A ) fuse in the under-hood fuse / relay box
Reset the power tailgate control unit .
If the battery terminal is disconnected or No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box is removed while the power tailgate is operating , the power tailgate will not be able to open or close automatically until it is reset .
To reset the system , fully close the tailgate manually .
Once the battery terminals are reconnected or No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box is replaced , the power tailgate system will automatically reset .
ensure the power tailgate operates properly .
Showroom vehicle access door should be large enough to accommodate all vehicles .
Open the tailgate and remove the left rear pillar trim .
Disconnect the 8P connector ( A ) form the power tailgate drive unit ( B ) .
Test the beeper by connecting battery power to the terminal No . 2 and ground to the terminal No . 7 .
If the beeper does not sound , disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) and check for an open in the wire between the 2P connector and the 8P connector .
If the wire harness is OK , replace the beeper ( B ) .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the power tailgate motor ( B ) .
Close the tailgate manually .
Check the motor operation by connecting battery power to the terminal No . 1 and ground to the terminal No . 2 . The motor should run ( tailgate open ) .
Be careful not to pinch your hands .
In case of doubt , contact your supervisor or plant safety department .
HEALTH & SAFETY
After opening the tailgate , connect battery power to the terminal No . 2 and ground the terminal No . 1 . The motor should run ( tailgate closed ) .
If the motor does not run or fails to run smoothly , replace the drive unit assembly .
Remove the rear pillar trim .
Disconnect the 2P and 8P connectors ( A ) from the drive unit ( B ) .
Carefully remove the bolts and support strut from the tailgate .
Remove the mounting bolts and drive unit .
Disconnect the 7P connector ( A ) from the fuel fill door opener / driver ' s door power tailgate switch ( B ) , then push the switch out from behind the door panel .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the bulbs or the switch .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the closer motor ( B ) .
Check motor operation by connecting battery power to the tailgate closer unit 2P connector terminal No . 2 and ground to the terminal No . 1 . To prevent damage to the motor , apply battery voltage only momentarily .
The Dealer must adopt a responsible attitude to the disabled , young and elderly .
If the motor does not run or fails to run smoothly , replace the tailgate latch assembly .
Carefully pry out the inside tailgate switch ( A ) , and disconnect the 6D connector ( B ) from switch .
Disconnect the 6P connector ( A ) from the tailgate closer unit ( B ) .
Check for continuity between the terminals in each latch position according to the table .
If the continuity is not as specified , replace the tailgate latch assembly .
Remove the clips , screws and nuts from the pinch sensor ( A ) .
The illustration shows left side pinch sensor , right side is symmetrical .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( B ) from the pinch sensor .
Right Tailgate Wire Harness ( With Power Tailgate )
Gauge Control Module Lost Communication with Power Tailgate ( PTG Message )
The Dealer shall conform to all local regulations .
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the gauge control module .
Do the power tailgate control unit input test .
Power Tailgate Control Unit Internal ( EEPROM ) Error
Remove the No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuse from the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Wait for 1 minute , then reinstall the No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuse to the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Close the tailgate manually ( not with the power tailgate switch ) .
Replace the power tailgate control unit .
Intermittent failure , the power tailgate control unit is OK at this time .
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the MICU .
Power Tailgate Control Unit Lost Communication with MICU ( MICU Message )
SAFETY SYSTEMS
Are DTCs B1055 , B1157 , B1160 , B1255 , B1955 , B2155 , and / or B1806 also indicated ?
Power Tailgate Control Unit Lost Communication with Driver ' s MPCS Unit ( DRLOCKSW Message )
Power Tailgate Control Unit Lost Communication with Driver ' s MPCS Unit ( ASLOCKSW Message )
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the driver ' s MPCS unit .
Power Tailgate Control Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( VSP / NE Message )
Power Tailgate Control Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( A / T Message )
Are DTCs B1011 , B1060 , B1061 , B1205 , B1206 , B1207 , B1906 , B1956 , and / or B2160 also indicated ?
Driver ' s Door Power Tailgate Switch Circuit Malfunction
If the power tailgate motor does not operate , test the motor first .
Operate the driver ' s door power tailgate switch for more than 1 second .
The safety of staff and customers is paramount and must be considered at all times .
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the driver ' s door power tailgate switch .
Disconnect the 6D connector from the driver ' s door power tailgate switch .
Disconnect power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) terminal No . 5 and body ground .
Disconnect power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminal No . 5 and body ground .
Do the driver ' s door power tailgate switch test .
Replace the driver ' s door power tailgate switch .
Tailgate Outer Handle Switch Circuit Malfunction
Clear the DTCs with the Polox system , and wait for 2 seconds .
Hazardous areas exist in all facilities .
Pull the tailgate outer handle for more than 2 seconds .
Check for loose or poor connections at the power tailgate control unit and at the tailgate outer handle switch .
Open the power tailgate with the keyless transmitter .
Disconnect the 3P connector from the tailgate outer handle switch .
Test the tailgate outer handle switch .
Replace the tailgate outer handle switch .
Inside Tailgate Switch Circuit Malfunction
Open the tailgate with the keyless transmitter .
Push the inside tailgate switch for more than 2 seconds .
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the inside tailgate switch .
In most instances the local codes will provide minimum safety requirements for all aspects of the building .
Disconnect the 6D connector from the inside tailgate switch .
Test the inside tailgate switch .
Replace the inside tailgate switch .
Power Tailgate Right Pinch Sensor Circuit Malfunction
Open the tailgate manually or with the keyless transmitter .
Close the tailgate with the keyless transmitter or driver ' s door power tailgate switch .
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the power tailgate right pinch sensor .
Disconnect the 2P connector from the power tailgate right pinch sensor .
Measure the voltage between the harness side of the power tailgate right pinch sensor 2P connector terminals No . 2 ( + ) and No . 1 ( − ) .
Replace the power tailgate right pinch sensor .
However these are minimum standards and we encourage you to exceed these standards where reasonably possible .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminal No . 13 and the power tailgate right pinch sensor 2P connector terminal No . 2 .
Power Tailgate Left Pinch Sensor Circuit Malfunction
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the power tailgate left pinch sensor .
Disconnect the 2P connector from the power tailgate left pinch sensor .
Measure the voltage between the harness side of the power tailgate left pinch sensor 2P connector terminals No . 2 ( + ) and No . 1 ( − ) .
Replace the power tailgate left pinch sensor .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminal No . 16 and the power tailgate left pinch sensor 2P connector terminal No . 2 .
Power Tailgate Closer Unit Neutral Switch Circuit Malfunction
Open the tailgate with the tailgate outer handle .
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the power tailgate closer unit .
Advances and innovation in car safety continue to evolve ; these advances should be reflected in the safety of the facility .
Open the tailgate with the power tailgate outer handle .
Disconnect the 6P connector from the power tailgate closer unit .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate closer unit 6P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 5 .
Faulty neutral switch , replace the power tailgate closer unit .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate closer unit 6P connector terminal No . 5 and body ground .
Replace the power tailgate closer unit .
Turn the tailgate lock latch to the fully-closed position using a screwdriver .
Connect battery power to the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminal No . 2 and ground the terminal No . 1 momentarily .
( The motor should run in the release direction . )
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) terminals No . 3 and No . 11 .
OUTLINED BELOW ARE SOME OF THE SAFETY ISSUES WHICH SHOULD BE CONSIDERED :
Repair open in the wire between the power tailgate closer unit and power tailgate control unit .
Power Tailgate Closer Unit Release Switch Circuit Malfunction
Open the tailgate with the tailgate outer handle switch .
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the tailgate closer unit .
Faulty release switch , replace the power tailgate closer unit .
Power Tailgate Closer Unit Full Latch Switch Circuit Malfunction
Faulty full latch switch , replace the power tailgate closer unit .
Repair short to ground in the wire between the power tailgate control unit and the rear fuse / relay box or between the rear fuse / relay box and the power tailgate closer unit .
If the wire harness are OK , replace the MICU-rear junction box .
The EMERGENCY STOP buttons may only be actuated in case of emergency .
HAZARDS :
Turn the tailgate emergency lever to release the tailgate lock latch from the fully-locked position to release position .
Power Tailgate Closer Unit Ratchet Switch Circuit Malfunction
Faulty ratchet switch , replace the power tailgate closer unit .
Turn the tailgate lock latch to the fully-locked position using a screwdriver .
Power Tailgate Closer Unit Half Latch Switch Circuit Malfunction
Faulty half latch switch , replace the power tailgate closer unit .
Turn the emergency lever of the tailgate and release the tailgate lock latch from the fully-locked position .
Power Tailgate Sensor Pulse A Circuit Malfunction
If the motor does not operate , do the power tailgate motor test .
Close the tailgate automatically with the keyless transmitter or inside tailgate switch .
All hazards to health and safety should be considered and contact with customers and untrained staff must be avoided .
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the drive unit .
Connect the voltmeter to the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminals No . 14 and No . 18 .
Measure the voltage between the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminals No . 14 and No . 18 while the tailgate is opening and closing with the keyless transmitter or inside tailgate switch .
Does it alternate between about 0 V and 5 V ?
Digital voltmeter will read about 2,5 V .
Disconnect the 8P connector from the drive unit .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminals No . 14 and No . 18 and drive unit connector B ( 8P ) terminals No . 5 and No . 8 respectively .
Faulty power tailgate sensor A , replace the drive unit .
Power Tailgate Sensor Pulse B Circuit Malfunction
Connect the voltmeter to the power tailgate control unit B connector ( 20P ) terminals No . 15 and No . 18 .
If unavoidable hazards do exist , these should be clearly highlighted .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminals No . 15 and No . 18 and drive unit connector B ( 8P ) terminals No . 6 and No . 8 .
Faulty power tailgate sensor B , replace the drive unit .
Power Tailgate Motor Circuit Malfunction
Disconnect the 2P connector from the drive unit .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector A ( 6D ) terminals No . 3 and No . 5 and body ground respectively .
Connect battery power to the power tailgate control unit connector A ( 6D ) terminal No . 3 ( or No . 5 ) and ground the terminal No . 5 or ( No . 3 ) .
Check the power tailgate motor operation .
Does the motor run normally ?
Faulty power tailgate motor , replace the drive unit .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminals No . 9 and No . 20 and body ground respectively .
PEDESTRIAN ROUTES :
Connect battery power to the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminal No . 9 and ground the terminal No . 20 . Check for clutch operation .
Can you hear the clutch operate ?
Faulty power tailgate clutch , replace the drive unit .
Measure the voltage between the power tailgate control unit connector A ( 6D ) terminal No . 2 and body ground .
Check the No . 11 ( 40 A ) fuse in the rear fuse / relay box .
If the fuse is OK , check for an open in the wire between the rear fuse / relay box and the power tailgate control unit .
Measure the voltage between the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminal No . 12 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire or poor ground ( G701 , G702 ) .
Power Tailgate Motor Clutch Circuit Malfunction
Areas such as the diagnostic bay and service department can be a dangerous environment to the customer and untrained staff .
If the wire is OK , replace the drive unit .
Power Tailgate Closer Function Error
With the tailgate closed , pull the tailgate outer handle and wait for 10 seconds .
Listen for the sound of the latch releasing .
Is there sound ?
Check for loose or poor connections between the power tailgate control unit and the closer motor .
Troubleshoot the indicated DTCs .
Replace the power tailgate control unit and recheck the system .
Disconnect the 2P connector from the power tailgate closer motor .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminals No . 1 and No . 2 and the power tailgate closer motor 2P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 respectively .
Pedestrian paths should be clearly signed and marked .
Check for No . 6 ( 20 A ) fuse in the rear fuse / relay box .
If the fuse is OK , check for an open in the wire between the rear fuse / relay box and power tailgate control unit .
Disconnect power tailgate control unit connector A ( 6D ) .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector A ( 6D ) terminal No . 4 and body ground .
Reconnect the power tailgate closer motor 2P connector .
Connect battery power to the power tailgate control unit connector B ( 20P ) terminal No . 2 ( or No . 1 ) and ground the terminal No . 1 ( or No . 2 ) momentarily .
Does the motor run smoothly ?
Reconnect the 6P connector to the power tailgate closer unit .
Clock Operation
The clock shows day , date , and time information on the center information display .
Around the site , dedicated pedestrian routes should be provided and highly visible to both the pedestrian and the vehicle driver .
If the clock display does not appear normal , use the self-diagnosis function to test it .
Self-diagnosis function Mode 1 and Mode 2 force all possible segments on .
If any of the segments do not appear as illustrated , the clock is faulty .
Mode 3 forces all segments off .
If there are any segments appearing , the clock is faulty .
If the clock is faulty , replace the center information display .
Press and hold the SET ' ' button , the ' ' arrow down button , and the ' ' arrow up button , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
Within 3 seconds , press and release the SET ' ' button , press and release the ' ' arrow down button , and finally press and release the ' ' arrow up button .
Without Rear Entertainment System
Disconnect the 2P connector ( A ) from the rear accessory power socket ( B ) .
Traffic speed suppression measures should be considered .
RES Wire Harness ( With Rear Entertainment System )
Digital audio sublead connector
Rear controller and screen connector A
Roof
Rear controller and screen connector B
The audio system has a self-diagnostic function .
How to check for audio system condition
Turn off the audio unit .
Push and hold the No . 1 and No . 6 buttons .
While holding the buttons , push the VOL PUSH PWR knob to ON .
FIRE ENGINEERING :
Release the buttons and the self-diagnostic function begins .
By pressing a preset button , the input triggers the diagnostic mode that is assigned to that preset switch .
No . 3 button
Entire LCD lighting / light-out mode :
Turns on / off the entire LCD to show the presence or absence of an LCD segment failure .
Duty ( for the Illumination dim ) indication mode :
Indicates the duty for the Illumination dim .
Vehicle speed pulse indication mode :
Indicates the vehicle speed pulse .
6 Disc or DVD button ( Push and hold 5 sec . )
Routes for the fire escape should be clearly defined :
DRAM residual quantity indication mode :
Indicates the DRAM residual quantity .
AM or FM button ( Push and hold 5 sec . )
Reception level check mode :
Indicates the reception level .
When entering the reception level check mode , the AM / FM or FM button is used to change the S-METER , OFFSET , MP and USN ( A / I ) .
A . SEL / ROM button
Bus line check mode :
The audio communication line is checked between the DSP , EEPROM , and TUNER .
How to Obtain the Audio Unit Serial Number
Do not use these buttons to stop the machine under normal conditions !
particular consideration should be given to the elderly , children and visitors .
This procedure can only be done when the power has been disconnected from the audio unit , and the audio unit displays CODE .
With the audio unit switched off , push and hold the preset buttons No . 1 , No . 6 and the VOL PUSH PWR knob .
The audio unit displays the eight digits of the serial number ( example 12345678 ) .
Use all eight digits as the serial number when using the iN ( interactive network ) to get the 5 digit anti-theft code .
Display Specifications
Any other diagnostic screens shown are for audio manufacturer ' s use only .
Speaker check mode
Release the buttons and the speaker check mode begins .
A tone or low-frequency hum should sound from one speaker .
Each time you press the SEEK or CH button , the speaker outputs a beep sound in the listed order .
It should be remembered that the environment will be unfamiliar to the customer .
( + ) is pressed :
( − ) is pressed :
Speaker
Displayed Segments
Driver ' s door speaker and left tweeter
LEFT FRONT
Center speaker
CENTER
Front Passenger ' s door speaker and left tweeter
RIGHT FRONT
Fire detection and early warning systems should be installed at a minimum ; particular consideration should be given to the hard of hearing and those with poor sight .
RIGHT REAR
Right satellite speaker
RIGHT SURROUND
LEFT SURROUND
Left satellite speaker
LEFT REAR
All Speakers
ALL SPEAKERS
Any other diagnostic screens shown are for the audio manufactures purpose only .
Fire protection and suppression systems should always be considered .
The speaker check mode ends when you turn the audio unit off , or turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) .
The audio system displays error codes when a problem is detected with the CD disc changer , the audio disc , the XM radio , or the anti-theft code .
CD Error Codes
Error Code Displayed
Possible Cause
Solution
DISC READ
Cannot read disc .
Eject the disc and try another one , or the disc is installed up side down .
DISC ERROR
These systems can " buy " the user and customers valuable time to reach a position of safety until the emergency has abated .
There is a problem with the disc player .
A common problem is disc labels coming off the disc while in the player .
Try to eject the disc and try another one .
If there is still a problem , replace the navigation unit or audio unit .
HEAT ERROR
Disc player is hot .
This can happen if the vehicle is parked out in the hot sun all day .
Park the vehicle in a cooler place for a while and try the disc player again .
If the error code is still present , try another disc . If the error code is still present , replace the navigation unit or audio unit .
Focus Error
Particular consideration should be given to the installation of fixed protection systems such as sprinklers and automatic fire shutters , fire performing or wired glass and the use of portable equipment such as fire extinguishers and blankets .
Possibly DVD inserted in unit , or CD installed up side down .
Eject CD and try a known-good CD .
File Error
Audio unit cannot read the files on the CD or CD-R .
Verify that CD / CD-R file names end in CDA or WMA .
Verify that CD-R discs with compressed music formats end in MP3 or WMA .
Other file formats like I-tunes or Ogg are not recognized .
WMA files may have ( DRM ) copy protection and cannot be read .
Mech Error
CD label jammed in the mechanism .
Training and practicing procedures in case of fire should be undertaken regularly .
CD eject mechanism or motor is inoperative .
CD spindle motor won ' t spin up the CD .
Press the EJECT button and hold it for 5 seconds .
If the CD does not eject , try again .
If the CD still won ' t eject , replace the unit .
XM Error Codes
LOADING
XM radio is acquiring audio or program information .
Wait until the radio receives the information .
Systems and equipment should be tested and inspected at regular intervals .
XM channel not in service .
Try another XM channel .
NO SIGNAL
Loss of signal .
Both terrestrial and satellite antennas have lost signal .
Park the vehicle outside with a clear view of the southern horizon .
UPDATING
XM radio is receiving information update from the network .
This message will disappear once the update finishes .
CHECK ANTENNA
The environment and its use should always be considered .
XM antenna error .
Repair open or short in the satellite antenna .
Substitute the XM antenna with a known-good one , and recheck .
If the error is gone , replace the original XM antenna .
If the error is still present , replace the antenna lead .
ANTENNA ERROR
No signal from XM .
Check a known-good vehicle with XM radio .
If the known-good vehicle has the same symptoms , contact XM satellite radio at ( 800 ) 852 − 9696 .
Audio Unit Error Codes
Storage of flammable and highly combustible materials should be given special consideration , particularly in areas where contact with the untrained is encountered such as the diagnostic area and the parts counter .
CODE ERROR E
Anti-theft code mismatch ( 1st try ) .
Enter the correct anti-theft code .
CODE ERROR 1
Anti-theft code mismatch ( 10th try ) .
Remove fuse No . 5 ( 10 A ) in the under-dash fuse / relay box , then reinsert it .
You will have 10 more tries to enter the correct anti-theft code .
Overview
The audio unit acts as the processor for all audio functions .
You can select the audio functions from the audio panel , the audio remote ( on steering wheel ) , or by using the navigation voice control system .
Each emergency stop button is installed on an easily visible place out of the working area and marked with an appropriate label .
Local codes especially for the fire lanes / hydrants are to be complied with .
The audio display provides the current front and rear audio status .
For vehicles with the navigation option , additional audio information is available by touching the audio button .
( See the owner ' s manual for more details . )
Each audio component passes its audio or audio signal to the audio unit .
In addition , it communicates with the audio unit via the GA-Net bus . Any open connection in this circuit will cause audio and navigation functions to appear inoperative .
The audio unit has a built-in EEPROM ( electrically erasable programmable read-only memory ) .
This memory holds the audio presets data ( AM / FM radio frequency , sound settings , etc . ) even when the battery is disconnected .
With the ELS and the premium sound system , an audio amplifier unit powers the speakers .
The 6 DVD ( 6 CD ) changer output can be directed to the audio unit .
The XM can be output to either the front or the RES ( rear entertainment system ) .
EARTHING / GROUND INSTALLATIONS
However , if the XM is playing in the front , the CD changer cannot be used for the RES .
The RES ( built into the audio unit ) can be used to play a CD in the rear .
A security signal is daisy-chained between the audio , RES and navigation components for integration into the vehicle ' s alarm system .
Speed-sensitive volume compensation ( SVC )
Some audio systems are equipped with speed-sensitive volume compensation ( SVC ) .
The navigation or audio unit receives the vehicle speed pulse ( VSP ) from the PCM .
The system processes the speed input and increases the navigation or audio system volume level as the vehicle speed increases to compensate for the various interior noise that occurs at higher speeds .
When the vehicle slows down , the volume returns to its normal level .
The SVC has four settings :
SVC OFF , LOW , MID , and HIGH that can be adjusted using the navigation or audio unit .
Where metal or electrically conductible materials are exposed to staff and customers , these materials should be grounded to earth .
The SVC comes from the factory with the MID set as the default .
To change the audio unit SVC setting , press the tune folder sound knob repeatedly until the SVC is displayed , rotate the knob to adjust the SVC to the desired setting ( SVC OFF , LOW , MID , or HIGH ) .
To change the navigation unit SVC setting , press the AUDIO button , and then select the SOUND icon on the navigation display .
Press the navigation display to select the desired setting ( OFF , LOW , MID , HI ) .
The optional navigation system provides voice control for radio , XM , CD player , and RES functions .
The GA-Net ( audio unit ) communicates the voice control commands .
When using the TALK / BACK or route guidance ( RG ) , only the center speaker is muted and you hear the navigation instructions through the front speakers .
When using HFL / AcuraLink , the center speaker , the rear speakers , and the subwoofer are muted and the front speakers give the telephone sound .
When using HFL / AcuraLink and RG or TALK / BACK , the center speaker , the rear speakers , and the subwoofer are muted and you hear the telephone sound and navigation instructions through the front speakers but not the RES headphones .
GA-Net bus passes the muting commands .
Particular consideration should be given to the systems which have an electrical interface and are in easy reach of the staff and customers .
For more information , see the navigation section .
The outline of the audio interruption function is shown in the following table .
Contents
Audio output
Center CH
Left front CH
Right front CH
Right rear CH
Left rear CH
Subwoofer CH
Lightning protection should always be considered .
MUTE
Navigation sound
Route guidance
Telephone sound
OnStar / HFL / AcuraLink and RG or TALK / BACK
Telephone sound and navigation sound
System Diagram
These systems can be installed relatively inexpensively and may even reduce facility insurance provisions .
All items may not apply to this vehicle .
See the Owner ' s Manual for more information .
Audio Glossary
Definition
Active noise control
The active noise control system cancels some of the vehicle noise .
This occurs in the 1.500 − 2.400 rpm range .
Microphones detect the low frequency sound , and the system outputs a canceling sound from the audio speaker .
AM ( Amplitude Modulation )
The type of transmission used in the standard radio broadcast band from 530 to 1705 kHz .
Buildings - Health , Safety and Environmental Considerations - Revision 2
Amplifier
A device that increases the level of a signal by increasing the current or voltage .
Antenna
A device used to send or receive electromagnetic waves through the air .
ATA ( PC Card )
A type of card that has been tested for use in playing WMA , and MP3 music files in the PC Card slot .
Sizes of up to 1 GB have been tested .
Audio remote switch
The switches on the steering wheel that control the audio system .
Auxiliary Jack
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS :
Allows the client to use a portable audio device to input music recordings .
A control that changes the relative volume of the left and right channels .
A range of frequencies between two definite limits .
Bands are assigned by the Federal Communications Commission for specific uses .
Bass
An adjustment for the low frequency sounds of around 160 Hz and below .
A unit of storage for computer files and memory .
A CD holds approximately 700 million bytes .
Location of outlets should be paramount .
Audio or video magnetic tape container having two reels .
Client ' s can insert it for recording or play back .
Compact flash
A standard for small-size ( 3 x 4 cm ) , memory cards used in mobile computers , PDAs , digital cameras .
Compact flash memory cards are available in size of 32 MB up to 4 GB or more and can be played in the audio PC slot .
Sizes above 1 GB has not been tested .
CD ( Compact Disc )
A 4,5 -inch plastic disc containing digital audio recording that is played optically on a laser equipped player .
Never use discs with a paper label .
In a hot car , labels can curl up and jam the unit .
Power close to children ’ s areas and wet areas should be avoided .
CD ( audio disc ) changer
CD player that can store and play more than one CD .
Two types are available .
Some units accept CDs fed into the changer one at a time , and others accept a magazine ( with CD ' s stacked in a container ) .
CD player
A component designed to play compact disc CD recording using a laser optical pickup .
The signal from a CD player usually requires amplification .
Distortion
Inexact reproduction of an audio signal caused by playing music at levels the audio system cannot handle .
Dolby ( noise reduction )
Pressing on EMERGENCY STOP button will stop the movements of the machine immediately .
Main power systems ( 3-phase power ) should never be located in public areas .
A processing system developed by Dolby Laboratories that reduces the background noise on recording media .
The result is a cleaner playback from the audio system .
DVD ( Digital Versatile Disc )
A 4,5 -inch CD-like format used for storing movies with digital audio and video features .
The DVD-A format is a DVD format designed for DVD audio systems .
Some vehicles can play DVD and DVD-A formats .
Equalizer
A device that changes the relative volume of individual frequency bands to suit personal tastes of the listener .
The control that adjusts the relative volume levels of front and rear speakers in a four-speaker system .
LIFT INSTALLATI ONS :
Format
To prepare a PC Card to receive files this function is performed on a PC .
Always choose either FAT or FAT32 as the NTFS format is not accepted by the system .
Pick the default sectors for the format method selected .
FM ( Frequency Modulation )
The form of modulation used for radio and television sound transmission in most of the world .
Less prone to interference than AM . The FM broad cast band covers roughly 87 to 108 MHz .
The GA-Net allows the audio unit to communicate with all the audio and navigation components in a vehicle .
If there is an open in the GA-Net , components or the entire audio and navigation system may appear inoperative .
Where lifts are installed , these should be checked and inspected at regular intervals .
A unit of memory or disk storage equal to billion bytes ( 1000 million bytes ) .
Abbreviation for hard disc drive .
They are sensitive to heat and it is not recommended that they be used in the PC card slot for playing audio files .
Hertz ( HZ )
The unit of frequency equal to one cycle per second ( cps ) .
One kilohertz ( kHz ) equals 1.000 cps ; one megahertz ( MHz ) equals 1 million cps .
Integrated amplifier
A component that combines a pre amp and a power amp into a single unit .
HOT WATER SYSTEMS :
A receiver combines an integrated amp and a tuner into a single unit .
Jewel case
The hard plastic case that contains a compact disc or DVD .
Always use a jewel case to prevent scratches on the underside of a CD or DVD .
LCD ( Liquid Crystal Display )
A type of digital display that changes reflectance or transmittance when an electrical field is applied to it .
A unit of memory or disc storage equal to 1 million bytes .
Memory
Circuitry or devices that hold information in electrical or magnetic form , such as the AM / FM radio presets .
Where staff and customers are in contact with hot water , the delivery of the water should not scald the user .
One million bytes .
Written as 1 MB .
Megabytes are used as a measure of digital storage space .
For example , a CD can hold 650 MB .
An abbreviation for microphone .
For vehicles with navigation , the microphone accepts navigation voice commands to control audio and navigation functions .
MP3 music files
MP3 is an audio coding format .
MP3 is a poplar audio compression format on the Internet and computers .
SFTRITY SYSTEMS
CDs , and PC Card with these files can be played on some vehicle ' s audio system .
Mute
When the navigation gives guidance , the front speakers are muted ( no music ) .
When you use the voice control system , all of the speakers are muted .
Noise
Unwanted random sounds like buzzing , hiss , pops , static , whine , etc .
PC card
The slot used for playing MP3 and WMA music files .
The PC Card is usually a combination of a small flash card in a PCMCIA adaptor that slides into the slot .
The ATA , SD , and compact flash types of cards have been tested up to 1 GB .
The Dealer must adopt a responsible attitude to security and crime prevention .
A computer standard for the slot that the PC card slides into .
Another term for the PC card slot .
Processor
The part of an audio device that performs task / calculations .
In the audio unit the processor handles muting to allow the navi to speak voice commands , and the decoding / playback of the sound files etc .
A head unit that combines a tuner , a preamplifier , and often a power-amplifier .
SCF ( Cold Start Fix ) screens
These screens are displayed if the system requires a GPS initialization .
The dealer should be sensitive to vulnerable areas of the facility that will require specific consideration , such as the cashier and merchandising areas .
The vehicle should be moved outside into an open area away from buildings / power lines .
Stereo
A recording of at least two channels where you can hear sound or music from the left or right side .
SD ( SFTre Digital ) card
This compact type of memory card allows for fast data transfer and has built-in security functions .
SD cards have a small write-protection switch on the side .
Shield
A metallic foil or braided wire layer surrounding conductors which are designed to prevent electrostatic or electromagnetic interference ( noise ) from external sources such as buzzing , or popping sounds heard on the speakers .
Speaker ( Loudspeaker )
A device that converts electrical energy into acoustical energy ( sound ) .
Outlined below are some of the security systems which should be considered :
The SVC increases the audio volume to compensate for increased interior noise when the vehicle is driven at freeway speeds .
A loudspeaker made to reproduce the lowest audio frequencies , approx 25 Hz to 125 Hz .
Track
A sound recording on a CD , tape , or PC Card .
An adjustment to control the volume of the high frequency sounds .
Tuner
A component ( or part of a component ) that receives radio signals and selects one broadcast from many .
Tweeter
A speaker designed to reproduce the higher frequencies ( treble ) only .
Fences and gates
Voice coil
A coil of wire wrapped around a tube and then attached to the speaker cone or diaphragm .
When an audio signal is applied , the coil becomes an electromagnet and interacts with the permanent magnet causing the come or diaphragm to vibrate .
We interpret this vibrations as sound .
Volume control
Allows you to control the loudness of the music .
WMA music file
Windows Media Audio File .
This is an accepted format for music files to be played on either a CD-R , a CD-RW , or a PC Card .
Woofer
The display on the monitor panel presents the message “ Station System Fault ” .
Intruder attack and detection
A speaker that is designed to reproduce bass frequencies only .
Satellite based radio transmission , which also uses a ground based repeater network to ensure seamless reception .
The channels originate from XM ' s broadcast center , in Washington , DC , and uplink to two satellites .
These satellites transmit the signal across the entire continental United States .
The external component that receives and processes the XM signals from the XM satellites , and terrestrial ( land ) stations .
The audio unit communicates to the XM receiver over the GA-Net bus .
Audio Unit Connector for Inputs and Outputs
When replacing an audio unit connector , match the wires to the cavities listed in the following tables .
With navigation / With rear entertainment system
With navigation / Without rear entertainment system
Close-circuit television systems
Without navigation / Without rear entertainment system
AUDIO UNIT CONNECTOR A ( 17P )
Rear controller and screen ( SCTY4 ) * 3
Navigation display unit ( SCTY4 ) * 1
Ground ( G504 )
Constant power
Access control
With rear entertainment
AUDIO UNIT CONNECTOR B ( 32P )
Audio remote ground
Stereo amplifier ( RS485 + ) * 1
Stereo amplifier ( RS485 − ) * 1
Stereo amplifier ( FL PRE IN − )
Stereo amplifier ( FR PRE IN − )
Stereo amplifier ( RL PRE IN − )
Stereo amplifier ( RR PRE IN − )
Stereo amplifier ( SW PRE IN − )
SFTrity personnel .
Stereo amplifier ( CTR PRE IN − )
Audio remote
Stereo amplifier ( RS 485 GND ) * 1
Stereo amplifier ( RS 485 SH ) * 1
Stereo amplifier ( + B )
Stereo amplifier ( FL PRE IN + )
Stereo amplifier ( FR PRE IN + )
Stereo amplifier ( RL PRE IN + )
Stereo amplifier ( RR PRE IN + )
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stereo amplifier ( SW PRE IN + )
Stereo amplifier ( CTR PRE IN + )
The shielded wires have a heat-shrunk tube insulating the outside of the wire .
The color of the insulating tube , typically black or dark gray , may not match the color of the wire listed on the schematic .
AUDIO UNIT CONNECTOR C ( 24P ) ( With rear entertainment )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX AUDIO R / L GND )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX AUDIO R / L SH )
XM receiver , HandsFreeLink control unit ( LINE OUT − )
XM receiver , HandsFreeLink control unit ( LINE OUT SH )
The Dealer must adopt a responsible attitude to the importance of environmental protection and should comply with all environmental regulations , legislation and industry codes of practice associated with :
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX AUDIO R )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX AUDIO L )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( CONN CHK )
XM receiver , HandsFreeLink control unit ( LINE OUT + )
XM receiver ( B-CAN )
Climate control unit ( HVAC BUS )
AUDIO UNIT CONNECTOR C ( 24P ) ( Without rear entertainment )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX SIG GND )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( SH AUX )
XM receiver , HandsFreeLink control unit ( LINE OUT − )
Reduce the amount of waste produced
XM receiver , HandsFreeLink control unit ( LINE OUT SH )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX RCH )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX LCH )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX DET )
XM receiver , HandsFreeLink control unit ( LINE OUT + )
AUDIO UNIT CONNECTOR D ( 14P )
XM receiver , Navigation unit , Navigation display unit ( GANET BUS SH )
XM receiver ( GANET AUDIO SH )
The internal and external appearance of all our dealerships must support our brand image in Russia and Central Europe .
XM receiver ( GANET AUDIO R + )
Reduce the consumption of energy
XM receiver ( GANET AUDIO L + )
XM receiver , Navigation unit , Navigation display unit ( GANET BUS + )
XM receiver , Navigation unit , Navigation display unit ( GANET BUS − )
XM receiver ( GANET AUDIO R − )
XM receiver ( GANET AUDIO L − )
AUDIO UNIT CONNECTOR E ( 16P )
Increase the use of recyclable and renewable materials
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX VIDEO IN SH )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX VIDEO IN GND )
Rear controller and screen ( RR NTSC SH )
Under-dash fuse / relay box
Rear controller and screen ( RR BUS SH )
Rear controller and screen ( RR BUS − )
Safe disposal of toxic and other non-environmentally friendly goclip .
Auxiliary jack assembly ( AUX VIDEO IN )
Rear controller and screen ( RR NTSC GND )
Rear controller and screen ( RR NTSC )
Rear controller and screen ( RES AUDIO OUT R )
Rear controller and screen ( RES AUDIO OUT SH )
Rear controller and screen ( RES AUDIO OUT L )
Before starting the machine ensure that the cause of EMERGENCY STOP has been rectified .
Site Works - Contents - Revision 2
Rear controller and screen ( RES AUDIO OUT GND )
Rear controller and screen ( RR BUS + )
AUDIO UNIT CONNECTOR F ( 2P )
Rear controller and screen ( DIG AUDIO SIG )
Rear controller and screen ( DIG AUDIO SH )
AUDIO UNIT CONNECTOR H ( 3P )
Antenna module unit ( SIG )
LANDSCAPING AND EXTERNAL WORKS
Antenna module unit ( SH ( AM / FM ) )
Antenna module unit ( ANT + B )
Stereo Amplifier Connector for Inputs and Outputs
When replacing a stereo amplifier connector , match the wires to the cavities listed in the following tables .
STEREO AMPLIFIER CONNECTOR A ( 28P ) ( With navigation )
Audio unit ( RS 485 − )
Audio unit ( RS 485 GND )
Audio unit ( + B )
Audio unit ( CTR PRE IN + )
Any new or refurbishment project should consider the whole of the site , including landscaping and hardscaping .
Audio unit ( SW PRE IN + )
Navigation unit ( RG SH )
Navigation unit ( RG GND )
Audio unit ( FL PRE IN + )
Audio unit ( FR PRE IN + )
Audio unit ( RL PRE IN + )
Audio unit ( RR PRE IN + )
Audio unit ( RS 485 + )
It is important that the whole dealership presents the same consistent image of quality and consideration .
Audio unit ( RS 485 SH )
Audio unit ( CTR PRE IN − )
Audio unit ( SW PRE IN − )
Navigation unit ( RG L + )
Audio unit ( FL PRE IN − )
Audio unit ( FR PRE IN − )
A well thought out site will provide the greatest visibility of the vehicles in the showroom and easy and safe access for customers .
Audio unit ( RL PRE IN − )
Audio unit ( RR PRE IN − )
STEREO AMPLIFIER CONNECTOR A ( 20P ) ( Without navigation )
STEREO AMPLIFIER CONNECTOR B ( 18P ) ( With navigation )
Front center speaker ( CTR SPKR − )
Right rear door speaker ( RR R SPKR − )
Left rear door speaker ( RR L SPKR − )
Right satellite speaker ( R D-PLR SPKR − )
Front passenger ' s door speaker , Right tweeter ( FR R SPKR − )
For example used cars , planting or other obstructions must not prevent clear visibility of the showroom and its entrance and convenient parking should be provided for customers .
Driver ' s door speaker , Left tweeter ( FR L DR SPKR − )
Left satellite speaker ( LD-PLR SPKR − )
Front center speaker ( CTR SPKR + )
Right rear door speaker ( RR R SPKR + )
Left rear door speaker ( RR L SPKR + )
Right satellite speaker ( R D-PLR SPKR + )
Front passenger ' s door speaker , Right tweeter ( FR R SPKR + )
Driver ' s door speaker , Left tweeter ( FR L DR SPKR + )
Left satellite speaker ( L D-PLR SPKR + )
PLANTING
STEREO AMPLIFIER CONNECTOR B ( 18P ) ( Without navigation )
Planting can have a positive effect on the appearance of a site but it must be carefully selected and planned .
AcuraLink Control Unit ( XM Receiver ) Connector for Inputs and Outputs ( With AcuraLink )
When replacing an AcuraLink Control Unit ( XM receiver ) connector , match the wires to the cavities listed in the following tables .
ACURALINK CONTROL UNIT CONNECTOR A ( 20P ) ( With navigation )
XM receiver ( + B )
Navigation unit ( NV RX + )
Navigation unit ( NV TX + )
Gauge control module ( CAN HI )
It can act to soften an otherwise stark and industrial building as a background to the new elements .
Audio unit , Navigation unit , Navigation display unit ( GANET BUS + )
Audio unit ( GANET AUDIO L + )
Audio unit ( GANET AUDIO R + )
XM receiver ( IG1 )
Navigation unit ( NV RX − )
Navigation unit ( NV TX − )
Navigation unit ( NV SH )
Gauge control module ( CAN LO )
Audio unit , Navigation unit , Navigation display unit ( GANET BUS − )
Audio unit , Navigation unit , Navigation display unit ( GANET BUS SH )
Small decorative bedding plants or flowers should be avoided .
Audio unit ( GANET AUDIO L − )
ACURALINK CONTROL UNIT CONNECTOR B ( 16P ) ( With navigation )
Audio unit , HandsFreeLink control unit ( LINE OUT SH )
Audio unit , HandsFreeLink control unit ( LINE OUT + )
Audio unit , HandsFreeLink control unit , Multiplex integrated control unit ( B-CAN )
HandsFreeLink control unit , Navigation unit ( HFT COMM SH )
HandsFreeLink control unit , Navigation unit ( HFT COMM 3 )
Handsfreelink control unit , Navigation unit ( HFT COMM 1 )
Audio unit , HandsFreeLink control unit ( LINE OUT − )
XM Receiver Connector for Inputs and Outputs ( Without AcuraLink )
Clamp Position
Then unlock EMERGENCY STOP button to initial position .
Large shrubs and trees should not obstruct visibility but may be used to soften the boundaries of the site , screen off unsightly features or areas and break up large expanses of hardscaping .
When replacing an XM receiver connector , match the wires to the cavities listed in the following tables .
XM RECEIVER CONNECTOR A ( 14P ) ( without AcuraLink )
Audio unit ( GANET AUDIO R − )
Interface Dial Connector for Inputs and Outputs
When replacing an interface dial connector , match the wires to the cavities listed in the following table .
INTERFACE DIAL CONNECTOR ( 6D )
Navigation unit ( JOG BUS )
Navigation unit ( JOG SH )
Auxiliary Jack Assembly Connector for Inputs and Outputs ( Without rear entertainment )
When replacing an auxiliary jack assembly connector , match the wires to the cavities listed in the following table .
Professional advice should be sought to ensure that the plants are suitable for the local conditions and will flourish .
AUXILIARY JACK ASSEMBLY CONNECTOR ( 6D ) ( Without rear entertainment )
Audio unit ( AUX DET )
Audio unit ( SH AUX )
Audio unit ( AUX SIG GND )
Audio unit ( AUX LCH )
Audio unit ( AUX RCH )
Poor AM or FM radio reception or interference
Symptom Troubleshooting
Check the radio reception in an open area .
Areas of landscaping that are usually seen from a distance should use trees and large plants in groupings of a single species to make a stronger long distance statement .
Poor reception / interference can be caused by any of these conditions .
The radio station is far away .
A tall buildings , mountains , or high-voltage power lines are nearby .
Check the connectors for poor connections or loose terminals .
Aftermarket window tint .
Check the vehicle battery condition first .
Do the seek stop test and the reception level indication in the Self-diagnostic Function .
Is the test vehicle within 10 % of the known-good vehicle ?
Multipath interference or weak station .
Operation is normal .
Small species of greater variety should be used in areas that customers pass close by .
Check if the radio reception / interference is the same in several locations .
Is the reception / interference the same ?
Check the reception / interference while the engine is running .
Is there noise ( static or whine ) only with the engine running ?
Check the antenna and radio grounds .
If OK , check the charging system and the ignition system .
Remove the tailgate spoiler trim .
Touch one tester probe to the antenna element 1P connector terminal No . 1 , and the other tester probe at the antenna element to check for continuity .
Replace rear spoiler trim .
Go into the self-diagnostic mode and use the Tuner communication check mode .
The use of evergreen trees and plants is encouraged because they have a good consistent appearance all year round and usually have muted colouring .
Is the tuner communication OK ?
Audio unit is faulty , replace the audio unit .
Check that the AM / FM antenna lead and sub-lead are properly connected .
Are they connected properly ?
Reconnect the connector , and recheck the function .
Disconnect the AM / FM antenna amplifier 3P connector .
Turn on the audio unit , and select AM or FM .
Measure the voltage between AM / FM antenna amplifier 3P connector terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Disconnect audio unit connector H ( 3P ) .
Check for continuity between the audio unit connector H ( 3P ) terminal No . 3 and AM / FM antenna amplifier 3P connector terminal No . 3 .
Where seasonal flowering plants are used they should be selected with care .
Repair open in the wire between audio unit and the AM / FM antenna amplifier .
Also check the antenna lead / sublead connector .
Check for continuity between the audio unit connector H ( 3P ) terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Repair short to body ground in the wire between audio unit and the AM / FM antenna amplifier .
Check for continuity between the audio unit connector H ( 3P ) terminal No . 1 and AM / FM antenna amplifier 3P connector terminal No . 1 .
AM / FM antenna lead and / or sublead is faulty , replace the AM / FM antenna lead and / or the sublead .
Check for continuity between the audio unit connector H ( 3P ) terminals No . 1 and No . 2 .
Replace the AM / FM antenna , and recheck .
Neutral flower colours such as cream or white should be used in preference to pink , red or purple which may clash with the our blue of the signage elements .
If the reception is still poor , replace the audio unit .
Audio unit power switch will not turn on ( No information display and no sound )
Push the power switch ON to see if audio unit turns ON .
Does the audio unit display operate properly , and the audio unit sound normal ?
Check the No . 5 ( 10 A ) fuse and No . 32 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Check that the audio unit connectors are properly connected .
Is it connected properly ?
Repair poor connections and reconnect the connector , and recheck the function .
Disconnect the audio unit connector A ( 17P ) .
Ease of maintenance must be considered together with the rate of growth and final size of the trees .
Eject all the CDs before disconnecting the audio unit and CD changer to prevent damaging the CD player ' s load mechanism .
Measure the voltage between terminals No . 14 and No . 17 of audio unit connector A ( 17P ) and body ground .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the No . 5 ( 10 A ) and No . 32 ( 10 A ) fuses in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the audio unit .
Reconnect the audio unit connector A ( 17P ) .
Measure the voltage between audio unit connector A ( 17P ) terminal No . 9 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the audio unit connector A ( 17P ) terminal No . 9 and body ground ( G504 ) .
Audio unit power switch will not turn off
Check for aftermarket accessories plugged into the vehicle accessory power sockets .
With the ignition switch in ON ( II ) , push the power switch OFF or turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) to see if the audio unit turns OFF .
Site Works - Landscaping and External Works - Revision 2 .
Does the audio unit turn OFF ?
Measure the voltage between the terminal N º 14 of audio unit connector A ( 17P ) and body ground .
Check for short to power on the PUR wire .
Audio system sound is weak or distorted ( display is normal )
Check the connectors for poor connection or loose terminals .
Turn on the audio unit , and check for sound in each mode ( AM , FM , XM , and CD ) .
Is there sound from the speakers , and is the sound quality normal in each mode ?
Intermittent failure .
WALLS AND FENCES
Check for loose connections at the audio unit , the amplifier , and each speaker .
Speakers all work , sound quality is poor .
If sound quality is poor only with the XM radio , or the XM radio does not function , go to poor or no sound with the XM radio .
If the sound quality is poor only with AM or FM , go to poor radio reception or interference .
If the sound is poor in all modes , go to sound quality diagnosis .
Radio preset memory is lost
If only XM stations are lost , go to XM radio preset memory is lost ( with AcuraLink ) or XM radio preset memory is lost ( without AcuraLink ) .
Turn on the audio unit , and set each of the radio station preset buttons .
Do each of the preset buttons set properly ?
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) for 1 minute , then turn it back to ON ( II ) .
For further operation refer to “ Machine Start Up ” .
As with other elements of the exterior environment , walls and fences should appear as neutral as possible so that attention is focused on the vehicles and branding .
Test all the preset buttons for proper recall operation .
Do the preset buttons recall the set radio stations ?
Intermmittent failure , the system is normal at this time .
Check connections at the audio unit .
Inspect No . 5 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Is it OK ?
Replace the fuse and reset .
If it fails again , repair the short to ground in the harness .
Measure the voltage between the audio unit connector A ( 17P ) terminal No . 17 and body ground .
An open wire between the under-dash fuse / relay box and audio unit A17 terminal .
Walls of natural brick or fences of timber or other natural materials are particularly suitable especially when associated with planting .
Replace the audio unit .
An open wire between the audio unit connector A ( 17P ) terminal No . 9 and body ground ( G504 ) .
Volume does not change
Set the fader and balance positions to the center .
Is the sound normal ?
Go to audio system sound is weak or distorted , or no sound is heard from speakers .
Operate the volume knob to see if the volume changes .
Does the volume change ?
Operation is normal at this time .
Substitute a known-good audio unit , and recheck .
Where steel or aluminium fences are required the finish should be consistent with the rest of the building and be painted black , grey or silver .
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original audio unit .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good audio panel , and recheck .
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original audio panel .
Volume does not increase with speed
Verify the ( SVC ) mode setting in the navigation or audio unit sound set-up .
Is the ( SVC ) set to off ?
Change the setting to Mid and reset .
Do the self-diagnostic function for the vehicle speed pulse indication .
Does the self-diagnostic function indicate a VSP signal ?
Substitute a known-good navigation or audio unit and retest .
ROADS AND HARDSCAPING
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original navigation or audio unit .
Check for B-CAN codes with the Polox system .
Are there any B-CAN codes ?
Go to the applicable B-CAN code troubleshooting .
Inspect the VSP signal in the navigation system .
Does the VSP change from 0 to 1 when the vehicle is moving ?
Substitute a known-good audio unit , then retest the VSP signal in the audio self-diagnostic test .
If the speed is shown , replace the original audio unit .
If so speed is shown , substitute a known-good navigation unit .
Inspect the VSP circuit .
By nature car dealerships often require a great deal of exterior hardscaping for the display of used cars , customer parking and general access .
Volume is too high or too low when driving at freeway speeds
Test-drive the vehicle at highway speeds , and monitor volume level .
Is the volume level too high or too low ?
Change the ( SVC ) mode setting in sound set-up to Mid .
Is the volume level still too high , or too low ?
Improper ( SVC ) setting for clients sound taste .
Radio tuner does not change stations
Turn on the audio unit , and check the audio information on the display panel .
Does the audio information display properly ?
Go to audio unit power switch will not turn on .
Variations in floor finishes can separate areas for vehicle traffic from foot traffic , display from circulation areas and identify non-access areas .
Operate the tuning knob to see if the radio station changes .
Does the radio station change ?
Intermittent failure , the turning knob is OK at this time .
Display does not dim or brighten with dimmer
Turn the headlight switch to the parking or headlight on position .
Check the display of the climate control unit .
Does the climate control illumination change with dimmer ?
Go to climate control power and ground circuit troubleshooting .
Check the No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuse and the No . 32 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Check that the audio unit and climate control unit connectors are properly connected .
Finishes that have a bold appearance or pattern should be avoided .
Disconnect audio unit connector C ( 24P ) and climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) .
Check for continuity between the audio unit connector C ( 24P ) terminal No . 24 and climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 8 .
Repair open in the wire between the audio unit connector C ( 24P ) terminal No . 24 and climate control unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 8 .
Check for continuity between the body ground and audio unit connector C ( 24P ) terminal No . 24 .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and climate control unit .
Measure the voltage between terminal No . 1 of climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and body ground .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the climate control unit .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the 32 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the climate control unit .
If the symptom / indicated goes away , replace the original climate control unit .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good audio unit , and recheck .
A high quality appearance can be achieved by the use of brick paviors , textured concrete slabs or stone .
If the symptom / indicated goes away , replace the original audio unit .
Repair open in the wire between the climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) terminal No . 37 and body ground ( G506 ) .
Audio unit button illumination does not work
Turn the combination lighting switch to the parking light position .
Check the illumination of the audio unit buttons .
Are the buttons illuminated ?
All buttons illuminated :
Intermittent problem :
the audio unit is OK at this time .
Check for loose or poor connections at the audio unit connector C ( 24P ) .
Where a lower quality finish must be used concrete , asphalt or similar materials are suitable .
Some button ( s ) illuminated :
Audio panel is faulty , replace the audio panel .
Check the illumination of several other buttons not related to the audio system .
Go to the B-CAN line troubleshooting .
If the B-CAN line is OK , substitute a known-good audio unit , and recheck .
If the symptom / indicated goes away , replace the original audio unit .
If the symptom / indicated goes away , replace the original audio panel .
Troubleshoot the interior lights .
Start by checking the No . 22 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the under-hood fuse / relay box .
If the fuse is OK , check the interior light relay .
In this case walkways may be identified in one of the higher quality materials discussed above .
Audio disc does not load
Disc labels should not be used in the audio unit .
They may damage the player mechanism .
ensure the CD disc is compatible with the system ( see the owner ' s manual for more information ) .
Turn on the audio unit , and insert known-good disc to see if the symptom can be duplicated .
Does the disc load ?
If the disc loads normally , but will not play , go to audio disc does not play .
Insert another disc .
The original disc is faulty .
Lockout Instructions
The non-sales car parking area should be divided into individual spaces and identified as ‘ customer parking ’ , ‘ demonstration cars ’ etc .
Audio disc does not eject
They may damage and jam the player mechanism .
Turn on the audio unit .
Does the system turn on ?
Check to see if the disc ejects correctly with no binding by pushing the EJECT button .
Does the disc eject properly ?
Audio disc changer does not load all six discs
Turn on the audio unit , and try loading six discs into the audio unit / CD changer .
Does the audio unit accept all six discs ?
Intermittent failure , the audio unit is OK at this time .
White dividing lines or a contrast in the floor finish should be used to indicate the spaces .
Try loading the disc player with six known-good discs .
Does the audio unit / CD changer accept all six discs ?
At least one of the original discs is faulty .
Audio disc changer does not move between discs
Turn on the audio unit , and insert six discs into the audio unit / CD changer , and see if the changer moves between discs .
Does the changer operate normally ?
Intermittent failure , the disc changer is OK at this time .
Insert six known-good discs into the audio unit .
Special tools required
Diagnostics CD
Where a new interior floor finish is laid or on new sites the interior floor finish may be extended outside the showroom to reduce the impact of the glazing .
Audio disc does not play
Turn on the audio unit , and try loading a disc .
Go to disc does not load .
Insert another audio disc to see if the symptom can be duplicated .
Does the disc play ?
Insert audio diagnostic CD ( T / N 07AAZ-SDBA100 ) in the audio unit .
The original disc is faulty or has an unreadable format .
Skip test CD
In the case of ceramic tiles a more textured , non-slip , thicker and frost proof tile may be more appropriate outside .
Audio disc skips
Confirm the vehicle ' s tires are properly inflated .
Check the client ' s disc for scratches and fingerprints .
The following test should be done with the audio unit bass and treble set to the client ' s listening settings .
When comparing to known-good vehicles , do the comparison on the same model and trim level .
Test-drive the vehicle to identify when the client ' s disc skips .
The audio diagnostic CD ( T / N 07AAZ-SDBA100 ) can be used if the client ' s disc is not available ; use tracks 10 − 12 .
Does the disc skip ?
EXTERIOR LIGHTING
Compare the client ' s skipping disc that skips to a known-good vehicle under the same conditions .
Does the disc skip in the known-good vehicle under the same conditions ?
The CD player operation is normal , the problem is with the client ' s disc .
Do the following test with vehicle parked and the engine running .
Insert the diagnostic skip test CD ( T / N 07AAZ-SDBA300 ) .
Play tracks 2 − 11 , and note on which number track ( s ) the disc starts skipping .
Do the same test on a known-good vehicle .
Does the disc skip on same track ( s ) as the known-good vehicle ?
Insert the diagnostic skip test CD ( T / N 07AAZ-SDBA200 ) .
Play tracks 7 − 11 and tracks 13 − 15 , and note on which number track ( s ) where the disc starts skipping .
Exterior lighting may be required to illuminate circulation routes around the site and certain directional or locational signs .
Does the disc skip on same track number ( s ) as the known-good vehicle ?
Error code :
XM NO SIGNAL or XM ANTENNA is displayed
Check XM radio reception in an open area .
Poor reception / interference can be caused by tall buildings , mountains , or high-voltage power lines .
If you can only tune to channel 000.001 . 174 and 247 , ensure the audio unit is set to channel mode ( see owner ' s manual ) , if it is set to channel mode , call XM radio customer support , and check the account activation status .
If you replace the XM receiver , the Acuralink must be reactivated by Acura Client Services .
Park vehicle outside with a clear view of the southern horizon .
Turn on the audio unit , and select XM radio .
Does the XM radio receive a signal ?
It may also be required for security or road safety purposes .
Reception interference operation is normal .
With AcuraLink :
Without AcuraLink :
Check the XM antenna 2P connector and the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector C ( 2P ) .
Are the connectors connected ?
Reconnect XM antenna 2P connector and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector C ( 2P ) , recheck XM radio operation .
If the signal is restored , operation is normal .
If signal is not restored go to .
Disconnect XM receiver ( AcuraLink ) connector A ( 20P ) .
Measure the voltage between XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Regulatory restrictions should be complied with .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 5 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) terminal No . 1 .
Reconnect the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) .
Repair open in the wire between XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) terminal No . 11 and body ground ( G606 ) .
Substitute known-good XM antenna .
Does the XM radio receiver a signal ?
Replace XM antenna .
Substitute a known-good XM antenna lead .
If the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) receives a signal , replace the original XM antenna lead .
If the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) does not receive a signal , substitute a known-good XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) .
Check XM antenna 2P connector and XM receiver connector B ( 2P ) .
Any exterior lighting must be carefully designed so as not to detract from or compete with the special lighting effects of the showroom and the new external signage .
Reconnect XM antenna 2P connector and XM receiver connector B ( 2P ) , recheck XM radio operation .
If the signal restored , operation is normal .
If signal not restored go to .
Disconnect XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) .
Measure the voltage between XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 5 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) terminal No . 1 .
Reconnect XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) .
Is there 10 volts or more present ?
Substitute a known- good XM receiver and recheck .
If 10 volts or more are present , replace the original XM receiver .
For this reason it is more suitable to use low , directed light for general purposes rather than high level powerful floodlights .
Reconnect the XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) .
Repair open in the wire between XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) terminal No . 11 and body ground ( G606 ) .
If the XM receiver receives a signal , replace the original XM antenna lead .
If the XM receiver does not receive a signal , substitute a known-good XM receiver unit .
Poor or no sound with XM radio ( Audio unit does display XM channels )
Check the XM radio reception in an open area .
Poor reception / interference can be caused by nearby tall buildings , mountains , or high-voltage power lines .
If you can only tune to channel 000 , 001 , 174 , and 247 , ensure the audio unit is set to channel mode ( see owners manual ) , if it is set to channel mode , call XM Satellite Radio customer support , and check the account activation status .
If you replace the XM receiver , the AcuraLink must be reactivated by Acura Client Services .
Check for an error message on the display .
Control Panel & Electrical isolator
Lamps used to illuminate directional or locational signs should be discrete or hidden from view and provide a white light such as from low-voltage tungsten halogen to ensure true colour rendering .
Are there any messages displayed ?
Go to error code list .
Disconnect audio unit connector D ( 14P ) and the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) .
Check for continuity between audio unit connector D ( 14P ) and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) according to the table .
Audio unit connector
XM Receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) or replace the appropriate shielded harness .
Check for continuity to body ground between the terminals of XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) and body ground according to the table .
Then check for continuity between the same terminals listed in the table and the audio unit connector D ( 14P ) terminal No . 4 ( the harness shield ) .
Attaching floodlights to the roof of the dealership should be avoided as they detract from the horizontal format of the building .
XM Receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector
Replace the shielded wires between the audio unit and the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) .
Check for continuity between the terminals of XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) according to the table .
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good XM receiver ( ) , and recheck .
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) .
Check for continuity between audio unit connector D ( 14P ) and XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) according to the table .
It should be noted that the Entrance Statement does possess a number of down lighters at the Main Entrance .
XM receiver connector
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and the XM receiver .
Check for continuity between XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) and body ground according to the table .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and XM receiver or a short between the shield wires ( replace the applicable shielded harness ) .
Check for continuity between the terminals of XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) according to the cable .
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and XM receiver .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good XM receiver , and recheck .
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original XM receiver .
Site Works - Landscaping and External Works - Revision 2
Audio remote switch does not work properly
Test the audio remote switch .
Is the audio remote switch OK ?
Intermittent failure , the audio remote switch and audio unit are OK at this time .
Turn on the audio unit , and check the audio remote switch operation ( volume up , volume down , CH ( − ) , CH ( + ) , MODE ) .
Is the audio remote switch operation OK ?
Disconnect the audio unit connector B ( 32P ) .
Reconnect the audio remote switch .
While moving the steering wheel about 3 / 4 turn left and right , measure the resistance between the audio unit connector B ( 32P ) terminals No . 3 and No . 19 as specified in the table .
AUDIO REMOTE SWITCH TABLE
Retail Signs - Contents - Revision 2
Button held down
VOL DOWN
VOL UP
CH ( − )
( VOL . UP )
MODE
( NONE )
about 100
about 1,7 k
RAPID SERVICE , SERVICE WORKSHOPS , USED CARS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE FACILITIES
Is the resistance OK ?
Repair open or high resistance in the circuit between the audio unit and the audio remote switch .
If the wires are OK , replace the cable reel .
Check for continuity between body ground and the terminals No . 3 and No . 19 of audio unit connector B ( 32P ) individually .
Repair the short to body ground in the circuit between the audio unit and the audio remote switch .
Audio unit button does not work
To troubleshoot the main power switch , go to Power switch will not turn on .
Refer to the following switch list , and find the appropriate switch for each button .
Then do the following exercise to identify the switch that does not work by operating various buttons that only belong to that switch .
Switch list
FLAGS
Switch A :
Switch B :
INFO , MAP / GUIDE , MENU , CANCEL , SET UP , AUDIO , interface dial , display
Check to see if the buttons that do not function all belong to switch A .
Are they all switch A ' s ?
Check to see if the buttons that do not function belong to switch B .
Are they switch B ' s ?
Faulty audio-HVAC display panel and audio unit .
Replace the audio-HVAC display module .
APPLICATION RULES - NEW CAR FACILITIES
Check the connections between the interface dial and audio panel , and recheck the function .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good audio unit and recheck .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good audio panel and recheck .
Audio unit disc indicator does not work
Discs with labels should not be used in the audio unit .
Turn on the audio system .
Insert a known-good disc or press the EJECT button .
Is the DISC indicator ( LED ) indicated ?
The audio unit is OK at this time .
Check for loose or poor connections at the audio unit and the audio panel .
APPLICATION RULES - INTERIOR SIGNS
SFTrity indicator does not work properly
The system will not operate without the 4-digit security ( anti-theft ) code .
Before troubleshooting , confirm that a 4-digit security ( anti-theft ) code is recorded .
Turn off the audio system .
Is the security indicator ( LED ) light on ( blink ) ?
Is the security indicator ( LED ) light out ?
Use the following tests to check sound quality .
Before beginning the following tests , write down the client ' s bass , treble , fader and balance settings , then set them to their center positions for the testing .
Left / Right Channel ID
Do this test to confirm proper channel routing .
APPLICATION RULES - STANDALONE , SERVICE WORKSHOPS , USED CARS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE FACILITIES
Insert the audio diagnostic CD ( T / N 07AAZ-SDBA100 ) into the audio unit .
Play track No . 1 ( left , both , right channel ID ) at a normal , or slightly higher than normal , volume level .
The voice should be audible only from the channel or channels when indicated .
If the channel ID is correct for each side , go to phase test .
If the channel ID is not correct , check for
Shorted speaker wire
Faulty amplifier
Phase Test
Do this test to confirm proper speaker phasing .
Play track No . 2 ( phase ) at a normal , or slightly higher than normal , volume level .
Station Control
APPLICATION RULES - FLAGS
The voice should sound centered and focused when it is in-phase .
The voice should sound diffused , and have less bass when it is out of phase .
If the voice changes from in-phase to out of phase as indicated by the prompt , the phasing is correct .
Go to electrical noise test .
If the voice always sounds out of phase , phasing is not correct .
Check for :
Crossed speaker wires
Electrical Noise Test
Do this test to check for electrical noise being induced into the audio system .
Electrical noise may be caused by outside sources that cannot be handled by the audio system .
QUALITY ASSURANCE
ensure you remove any cell phones and / or turn off any aftermarket devices before beginning this test .
Play track No . 4 ( digital zero ) at a normal , or slightly higher than normal , volume level .
Operate any electrical device that may create electrical noise in the audio system , including starting the engine .
Play track No . 5 ( near digital zero ) at a normal , or slightly higher than normal , volume level .
Play track No . 6 ( SNR ) at a normal , or slightly higher than normal , volume level .
If no abnormal noise is heard , go to the individual speaker test .
If the noise is present only during the SNR track , replace the audio unit .
If the noise is heard during the digital zero or near digital zero track , check for
Poor ground at the audio unit , amplifier , engine , or battery cable
Pinched or shorted speaker or amplifier wire
EXTERIOR - PYLON
Other faulty components causing excessive electrical noise ( ignition coils , alternator , door lock actuators , etc . ) .
Disconnect any suspect components , and then replay the tracks that were originally noisy .
If the noise is gone , check the component ' s circuit and the component .
Individual Speaker Test
Do this test to identify a faulty speaker .
Play track No . 30 ( steady 300 Hz tone ) at a normal , or slightly higher than normal , volume level .
Listen to each speaker for poor sound compared to the other channels .
Use the audio unit ' s fader and balance settings to help isolate the channel with the problem .
If the sound quality produced by a specific speaker is poor , substitute it with a known-good speaker .
If the poor sound quality continues , go to the sound balance test .
If the sound quality is OK , go to the sound balance test .
Sound Balance Test
Perform this test to identify a faulty channel or speaker .
Confirm the bass and treble are set to the center positions .
Play track No . 3 ( pink noise ) at a normal , or slightly higher than normal , volume level .
A static type sound should be heard through all speakers .
Insert the audio diagnostic CD ( T / N 07AAZ-SDBA100 ) into the audio unit of a known-good vehicle .
Set the bass and treble to the center positions .
Play track No . 3 ( pink noise ) all the same level as was played in .
Compare the sounds made by the two vehicles .
Sign Cabinet clad in Sunrise Silver metallic coating PPG 5M92767 .
If the sound does not have as much bass , check the subwoofer and circuit .
If the sound does not have enough hiss , check the tweeters and their circuits .
Frequency Sweep
Do this test to find rattles or reverberations that may cause a perception of poor sound quality .
Play track No . 13 ( sweep from 500 Hz to 35 Hz ) at a normal , or slightly higher than normal , volume level .
Listen to each speaker for poor sound quality or reverberations caused by specific frequencies .
Use the voice-over to estimate the frequency that causes the vibration .
If vibrations or poor sound quality are heard , go to .
If no vibrations or poor sound quality are heard , go to sound judging .
Choose the appropriate track from No . 14 to 25 ( small range frequency sweep ) or 26 to 53 ( single frequencies ) to recreate the frequency that caused the poor sound quality or vibration witnessed in step 3 ; this aids in diagnosis of the cause .
Red Accent legs Optical , external grade polycarbonate to match PMS200 .
When you get to the track that recreates the problem , select the repeat function on the audio unit , this will help you isolate the cause .
Replace or insulate the source of the vibration or , if the speaker is the source of the poor sound quality , replace it .
Sound Judging
Do this test to compare overall sound quality , imaging , and dynamics between the client ' s vehicle and a known-good vehicle .
Only use a vehicle of the same model and trim level for this test .
In the client ' s vehicle , set the bass , treble , fader , and balance settings to the client ' s normal settings that were written down before beginning the test .
Play tracks No . 7 to 12 ( sound quality , midland , dynamics , and imaging demonstration tracks ) at a normal , or slightly higher than normal , volume level .
Write down the volume setting being used .
Listen to areas of the track that stand out as being either very clear or poorer than other areas of the track .
In a known-good vehicle , insert the audio diagnostic CD ( T / N 07AAZ-SDBA100 ) into the audio unit .
Illuminated with flourescent lamps .
Play the tracks at the same volume level and the same bass , treble , balance , and fader settings as used in in the client ' s vehicle .
Listen to the same area of the track that stood out as being either very clear or poorer than other areas of the track .
Compare the client ' s vehicle ' s sound quality results the known-good vehicle ' s results .
If the sound quality in the client ' s vehicle is comparable to the sound quality in the known-good vehicle , then the client ' s vehicle is operating as designed .
If the sound quality is not comparable , check these items in order .
Loose or improperly installed speakers or other hardware that may create interference from the vibrations generated by the speakers
Poor power or ground to the stereo amplifier
Damaged speaker ( s )
Seek Stop Test
Do this test to check the performance of the audio unit ' s AM and FM reception .
Brand Marks see later .
Refer to symptom troubleshooting :
audio sound weak or distorted , or no sound is heard from speakers ( display is normal ) before continuing with this test .
Window tint , aftermarket theft-recovery devices and other aftermarket devices may affect reception .
Changes in cloud cover and other atmospheric conditions will affect the ability of the audio unit to receive radio signals .
Park the client ' s vehicle in an open area away from buildings or other obstructions .
Park a known-good vehicle ( same year , model , and trim level ) next to the client ' s vehicle , facing the same direction .
Start the engine in the client ' s vehicle , and turn on the radio .
Set the FM receiver to 87,7 MHz .
Press the Seek + button , and record the first station that the audio unit locks onto .
Press the Seek + button repeatedly , and write down each station that the audio unit locks onto until the station recorded in is reached again .
Plinth Charcoal Grey RAL 7021 .
Set the AM receiver to 530 kHz .
Start the engine in the known-good vehicle , and then perform thru 10 on the known-good vehicle .
Compare the number of stations received in and 9 in the client ' s vehicle with the number of stations received in the known-good vehicle .
If the number of stations received is the same , or within 10 % , the audio unit ' s tuner performance is OK .
The problem may be atmospheric conditions , multi-path interference , or other obstructions to the radio signal .
If the client ' s vehicle receives fewer stations by at least 10 % , go to of poor radio reception or interference .
AM / FM antenna lead and / or sublead short or open in the wire
AM / FM antenna open
No sound is heard from the speaker ( s ) ( display is normal ) ( with navigation )
Retail Signs - External - Revision 2
No sound is heard from the speaker ( s ) ( display is normal ) ( without navigation )
Damaged disc
Disc with a label
Tire pressure ( over-inflated ) , disc smudged , dirty , or scratched
XM radio display is blank and no station information is displayed ( with AcuraLink )
XM radio display is blank and no station information is displayed ( without AcuraLink )
XM radio preset memory is lost ( with AcuraLink )
XM radio preset memory is lost ( without AcuraLink )
Disconnect the connector ( A ) from the AM / FM antenna amplifier ( B ) .
Remove the bolt and AM / FM antenna amplifier .
Pneumatic Isolator & Control
EXTERIOR - MODULE SIZES
Remove the nut ( A ) from the XM antenna ( B ) .
Disconnect the connector and remove the XM antenna .
Install the XM antenna in the reverse order of removal .
Remove the 20P connector from the cable reel .
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 19 and No . 20 in each switch position according to the table .
Switch not pressed
About 10 k
( VOL . DOWN )
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the audio remote switch .
Use a diode tester between the terminals in each switch position according to the table .
Entrance pylons foot print sizes to correspond with existing fixings to assist easy installation .
If the diode test is not as specified , replace the audio remote switch .
Review the SRS component locations , and the precautions and procedures before doing repairs or service .
Take care not to scratch the dashboard and related parts .
Lay a workshop towel under the parts when working on them to protect the face panel from scratches or other damage .
Eject all the disc before remove the audio unit to prevent damaging the CD / DVD player ' s load mechanism .
If you are replacing the audio unit , write down the audio presets ( if possible ) , and enter them into the new audio unit .
ensure you have the anti-theft codes for the audio system and the navigation system ( if equipped ) .
Remove the driver ' s inner dashboard trim , and front passenger ' s dashboard trim .
Remove the console lower trim panel ( A ) and the self tapping screws , then pull out the audio unit ( B ) .
Disconnect the connectors , then remove the audio unit .
For Brand Mark sizes refer to later sheet , all sizes approx .
Remove the climate control unit .
Remove the screws and the audio unit ( A ) from the audio panel ( B ) .
Install the audio unit in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Give the new anti-theft codes to the client .
ensure all the connectors and the antenna lead are secure .
Enter anti-theft codes for the audio system and the navigation system ( if equipped ) .
Set the clock ( on vehicles without navigation ) .
If necessary , enter the navigation system code .
Remove the glove box and passenger ' s dashboard undercover .
Disconnect the connectors ( A ) .
SIZE
Loosen the bolts , then pull out the stereo amplifier ( B ) .
Install the stereo amplifier in the reverse order of removal .
Door Speaker
Remove the three mounting screws from the speaker ( A ) .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( B ) , and remove the speaker .
There should be about 2 .
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the door speaker .
Center Speaker
Take care not scratch the dashboard .
Remove the screws and the speaker ( A ) .
EXTERIOR - ENTRANCE STATEMENT SMALL
Measure the resistance between terminals No . 1 and No . 2 there should be about 4 .
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the front center speaker .
Carefully pry the tweeter grille ( A ) out of the dashboard .
Be careful not to damage the tweeter grille and the dashboard .
Disconnect the 2P connector ( B ) from the tweeter .
Remove the tweeter speaker from the speaker grille .
Check the capacitor ( A ) condition .
If any problem is found , replace the tweeter .
Measure the resistance between the tweeter ( A ) terminal No . 2 and the outside terminal of the capacitor .
There should be about 6 .
Entrance Feature 200mm deep , integrated into building structure .
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the tweeter .
Satellite Speaker
Remove the quarter pillar trim .
Remove the speaker grille ( A ) and connector clip ( B ) .
Remove the screws and the satellite speaker .
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the satellite speaker .
Subwoofer / amplifier unit ( With navigation )
Remove the right rear side trim panel .
Disconnect the 8P connector ( A ) , then remove the bolts , nuts and pull out the subwoofer ( B ) .
Input Test
Small overall size :
With the connector still disconnected , make the input tests at the connector according to the table .
Measure the voltage to ground with all conditions :
Measure the voltage to ground with audio power switch ON :
Reconnect the connector to the subwoofer / amplifier unit , and make the input test at the connector according to the table .
If the input test proves OK and the subwoofer has no sound , replace the faulty subwoofer / amplifier unit .
Subwoofer ( Without navigation )
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 2 and No . 7 and terminals No . 3 and No . 8 . There should be about 2 .
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the subwoofer .
Turn on the audio unit , and ensure the volume button is not set to the MIN level .
6700 x 5500mm high .
Is it at the MIN level ?
Raise the volume level , and recheck the function .
Do the speaker check mode with the self-diagnostic function .
Did all speakers produce a tone ?
Check the faulty speaker ( s ) for damage .
Is there any damage ?
Replace the speaker and recheck .
Remove the speaker ( s ) that has no sound , and disconnect its connector .
Check the speaker connector for a loose or poor connection .
Reconnect the speaker connector , and recheck the symptom ; is the condition still present ?
Silver panels , Sunrise Silver metallic coating PPG 5M92767 .
Test the speaker ( s ) .
Is the speaker OK ?
Replace the speaker ( s ) .
Do the audio unit self-diagnostic function DSP unit communication check .
Is the DSP communication OK ?
Disconnect stereo amplifier connector B ( 18P ) .
Measure the voltage between stereo amplifier connector B ( 18P ) terminal No . 18 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 8 ( 30 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and stereo amplifier connector B ( 18P ) terminal No . 18 .
Disconnect stereo amplifier connector A ( 20P ) .
Measure the voltage between stereo amplifier connector A ( 20P ) terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Red panels , Red ref PMS200 .
Repair open in the wire between stereo amplifier connector A ( 20P ) terminal No . 1 and audio unit connector B ( 32P ) terminal No . 23 .
Reconnect the stereo amplifier connector B ( 18P ) .
Measure the voltage between stereo amplifier connector B ( 18P ) terminal No . 9 and body ground .
Repair open to the body ground in the wire between the stereo amplifier connector B ( 18P ) terminal No . 9 and body ground ( G504 ) .
Check for continuity between audio unit connector B ( 32P ) and stereo amplifier connector A ( 20P ) according to the table .
Stereo amplifier connector
Repair open in the appropriate wire ( s ) between the audio unit and stereo amplifier .
Disconnect stereo amplifier connector B ( 18P ) and the relevant speaker connector ( s ) .
Check for continuity between body ground and stereo amplifier connector B ( 18P ) according to the table .
Hydraulic Tank & Manual Isolator
Entrance soffit to have 3 No . external grade down lighters .
Driver ' s door speaker , Left tweeter
Front passenger ' s door speaker , Right tweeter
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between the stereo amplifier and the speaker ( s ) .
Measure the resistance between stereo amplifier connector B ( 18P ) according to the table .
Front center speaker :
Driver ' s door speaker , Left tweeter :
Front passenger ' s door speaker , Right tweeter :
Left rear door speaker :
Dealer name 6mm aluminium .
Right rear door speaker :
Subwoofer :
Is the resistance the same as indicated ?
Repair open in the wire between the stereo amplifier and the speaker ( s ) .
Check for continuity between stereo amplifier connector A ( 20P ) and body ground according to the table .
stereo amplifier connector
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and the stereo amplifier .
Check for continuity between the terminals of stereo amplifier connector A ( 20P ) according to the table .
EXTERIOR - ENTRANCE STATEMENT MEDIUM
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between audio unit and stereo amplifier ( replace appropriate shield harness ) .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good stereo amplifier , and recheck .
If the symptom indicated goes away , replace the original stereo amplifier .
Medium overall size :
On vehicles equipped with navigation and HandsFreeLink verify the voice systems are not activated , Press each system ' s back button to return the audio unit to the normal operating mode .
On the steering wheel , check the navigation talk command , and / or the HandsFreeLink talk command functions .
Are the navigation talk command and / or the HFL talk command functions set ?
Cancel the navigation talk command by pressing the navigation BACK button , and for the HFL talk command , press the HFL BACK button , then recheck the function .
Do the speaker ( s ) check mode with the self-diagnostic function .
Check the subwoofer for tone .
Did the subwoofer make a tone ?
Remove the faulty speaker ( s ) that has no sound , and disconnect its connector .
Check the speaker ( s ) connector for a loose or poor connection .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 8 ( 30 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and stereo amplifier connector B ( 18P ) terminal No . 18 .
MEDIUM
Disconnect stereo amplifier connector A ( 28P ) .
Measure the voltage between stereo amplifier connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the stereo amplifier connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 3 and audio unit connector B ( 32P ) terminal No . 23 .
Less than 0,1 V ?
Left satellite speaker :
Right satellite speaker :
Disconnect audio unit connector B ( 32P ) .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of the stereo amplifier connector A ( 28P ) and audio unit connector B ( 32P ) .
Repair open in the wire between the stereo amplifier and audio unit .
EXTERIOR - ENTRANCE STATEMENT - REAR ELEVATION
Check for continuity between the terminals of stereo amplifier connector A ( 28P ) according to the table .
To terminal
Check for continuity between body ground and stereo amplifier connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 1 , No . 2 , and No . 15 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between stereo amplifier and audio unit ( replace the appropriate shielded harness ) .
Check for continuity between audio unit connector B ( 32P ) and stereo amplifier connector A ( 28P ) according to the table .
Check for continuity between stereo amplifier connector A ( 28P ) and body ground according to the table .
Rear elevation to Entrance Feature without the logo .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good stereo amplifier , and recheck .
EXTERIOR - ENTRANCE STATEMENT LARGE
Disconnect the subwoofer 8P connector .
Measure the voltage between subwoofer 8P connector terminal No . 5 and body ground .
Repair open in the between the subwoofer 8P connector terminal No . 5 and No . 12 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Repair open in the between the stereo amplifier connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 20 and subwoofer 8P connector terminal No . 6 .
Check for continuity between body ground and subwoofer 8P connector terminal No . 6 .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the stereo amplifier and subwoofer .
Check for continuity between subwoofer 8P connector terminal No . 4 and body ground .
Repair open to the body ground in the wire between the subwoofer 8P connector terminal No . 4 and body ground ( G606 ) .
You must be able to duplicate the client ' s concern to successfully diagnose the problem .
Always use the client ' s phone .
Large overall size :
ensure the phone is approved and configured correctly .
Online , go to www . acura . com , or call the HFL support desk at 888-528-7876 for further assistance .
Repair the indicated DTCs and recheck .
Try to duplicate the problem .
Can you duplicate the problem ?
Pair the phone to a known-good vehicle ( same model , year , and trim ) , and try duplicate the problem .
Does the phone have the same problem on the known-good vehicle ?
Call the HFL support desk at 888-528-7876 to ensure the phone is configured correctly and has the correct software .
If the phone is configured correctly , it is either a characteristic of the HFL system , or a characteristic of the particular approved phone being used .
Explain to your client that this is a system characteristic .
EXTERIOR - ENTRANCE STATEMENT DETAILS
Another phone from the approved phone list may give more favorable results .
Substitute a known-good HandsFreeLink control unit and recheck .
If the problem goes away , replace the original HandsFreeLink control unit .
The MID displays and HFL message do not go away after pressing the HFL BACK button
Check and repair all CAN related DTCs
Repair the indicated DTCs .
Substitute a known-good HandsFreeLink control unit , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) and recheck the MID .
Are the messages cleared ?
Replace the original HandsFreeLink control unit .
The HFL system does not recognize all voice prompts
People
Dealer Name
Check if the problem is duplicated .
Can the client ' s problem be duplicated ?
Ask the client to demonstrate the problem .
Check if the navigation system can recognize for voice prompts .
Can the voice prompts be recognized ?
Refer to the navigation system troubleshooting .
Pair the client ' s phone to a known-good vehicle , and try to duplicate the problem .
Call the HFL support desk at 888-528-7876 , and inquire if there are any known issues for the problem .
If there are no known issues , explain to the client this is a system characteristic and cannot be improved at this time .
Substitute a known-good HFL / navigation microphone .
LARGE
If the problem is still present , substitute a known-good HandsFreeLink control unit .
If the problem goes away , replace the original HFL / navigation microphone .
The HFL system is locked and the pass code has been lost or forgotten
From the Body Electrical menu , then select HandsFreeLink .
Select Miscellaneous Tests , then select Pass code reset .
Follow the Polox system system prompts to reset the pass code .
Most HFL problems with pairing and HFL function are usually caused by the cell phone and its configuration .
Call the HFL support desk at 888-528-7876 for help before replacing any HFL components .
The phone icon in the navigation route to screen is grayed-out
There is no HFL-compatible phone paired to the vehicle .
SMALL
Pair an approved HFL-compatible phone to the vehicle
The phone must be on the list of approved Bluetooth phones and configured correctly .
For a current list of approved phones , go to www . acura . com , or call 888-528-7876 for further assistance .
Check the Diagnostic Menu and use the Navi System Link
The approved Bluetooth phone is having problems pairing to the vehicle
HFL Self-diagnostic Function
The Bluetooth phone cannot use all its functions
The Bluetooth phone does not place or receive calls using the HFL system
The client wants the HFL system reset ( all phones and address information cleared from the HFL system )
Clearing the system
EXTERIOR - PAVEMENT ENTRANCE STATEMENT
See the Owner ' s Manual for additional information .
Also see Voice control tips .
The HFL system speaks in French
See the HFL section in the Owner ' s Manual for Changing Language
ensure the Polox system communicates with the vehicle and the HandsFreeLink control unit .
Select HandsFreeLink in the BODY ELECTRICAL menu .
Select DTCs in the HandsFreeLink menu .
INTRODUCTION
The HFL system works only with approved Bluetooth ® -enabled cell phones with a hands-free profile .
Entrance Feature fixed back to facade .
If you are not sure if your cell phone is compatible with the HFL system , Acura has a dedicated call center at ( 888 ) 528-7876 and web site www . acura . com / handsfreelink , to answer your questions .
The HFL system allows you to make and receive hands-free calls .
It cannot control the phone ' s performance ( call quality and signal strength ) .
For more information about performance and performance problems , refer to Dropped Calls .
Checking Cell Phone Compatibility
The most important step in troubleshooting HFL issues is to identify the client ' s phone model , the software version , and the carrier that experiences the HFL problem .
Not all phones with the Bluetooth feature and a hands-free profile are compatible with the HFL system .
Here is the best method to confirm if the phone is compatible :
Log onto www . acura . com / handsfreelink .
Select Find a Phone .
PANEL OPTIONS
Choose the vehicle model you are working on , then select CONTINUE .
Choose the vehicle model year , then select CONTINUE .
Choose the vehicle trim level , then select CONTINUE .
Choose to search by wireless carrier or cell phone manufacturer , then select CONTINUE .
A list of all current model phones that have been tested with Acura HFL system appears .
If the phone you are using is not in this list , look under the Currently Testing list and the Archived Phones list .
If the clients ' phone isn ' t on the web site , consider it to be incompatible .
Click on the phone model the client is using to view the HandsFreeLink supported features .
These approved , archived , and currently testing phone model lists are constantly changing , so ensure you view them frequently .
Phones are added as they are approved .
EXTERIOR - PANEL ENTRANCE STATEMENTS
Phones can be removed from the approved list if a software bug is discovered that makes the phone incompatible .
There phones can be added back to the approved list if the phone manufacturer corrects the bug .
If the software bug is corrected , a new software version is created and may be listed in the Supported Features section of the phone .
The Acura web site now includes the software versions that are tested and approved .
When software versions are listed , you need to know which version is loaded on the phone to help you troubleshoot the client ' s complaint .
If you cannot access the Acura web site , call the HFL call center at ( 888 ) 528-7876 for further assistance .
The call center is open Monday thru Friday from 6 : 00 a . m . to 6 : 00 p . m .
CST ; Saturday from 7 : 00 a . m . to 6 : 00 p . m . CST ; and Sunday from 8 : 00 a . m . to 6 : 00 p . m . CST .
Voice Control Tips
To give a voice command to the HFL system , press and release the HFL TALK button .
SIZES
Always wait for the beep , then give your command in a clear , natural voice .
The HFL microphone is on the ceiling by the map lights .
If the HFL system doesn ' t recognize your voice command , you ' ll hear Pardon . ' '
If your command isn ' t recognized a second time , you ' ll hear Please repeat . ' '
If your command isn ' t recognized a third time , the HFL system sends you to its Help menu .
To hear a list of available options at any time , press the HFL TALK button and say Hands free help . ' '
The HFL system may have problems recognizing some voices .
To improve voice recognition :
Close the windows and moonroof .
Set the fan speed to low ( 1 or 2 ) or off .
1500mm , 1300mm , 1000mm , 750mm high .
Adjust the airflow from the center vents down , so that it ' s not blowing against the microphone on the ceiling .
Speak in a clear and natural voice .
If the system cannot recognize your command , try speaking louder , in a deeper tone .
If the background noise is too loud , you may need to speak louder .
If you speak with something in your mouth , or your voice is too high , the system may not interpret your command correctly .
Find out if the problem is with one person or with everyone who uses the system .
If the system has a problem with only one person ' s voice , this is a system limitation .
Many issues result from the client not using the system properly .
ensure the client is using the HFL buttons and not the navigation buttons .
When the HFL TALK button is pressed , the client hears one audible tone .
Using Clip sizes 600mm , 800 , 1050mm respectively .
When the HFL BACK button is pressed , the client hears two audible tones .
ensure to press the HFL BACK button to exit out of the HFL main menu after completing a call and before giving any navigation commands .
The HFL system may experience a number recognition issue , such as when a client rattles off a set of numbers in a group unrecognized by the system .
The HFL system understands phone numbers in specific blocks of 1 , 3 , 4 , 7 , and 10 numbers .
For example , the system understands :
The system may become confused if numbers are stated in other blocks like these :
Navigation Through Menus
To skip a voice prompt , press and release the HFL TALK button while the HFL system is speaking .
The system beings listening for your next voice command .
To go back a step in a voice command sequence , press and release the HFL BLACK button , or press the HFL TALK button and say Go back . ' '
All persons , who - in whatever way - are to work with or at the machine , must be made familiar with the safety instructions for the machine .
1300mm and 1500mm central panel heights and widths conform to standard formula of spacing relative to Brand Marque .
If you don ' t say anything while the HFL system is listening for your voice command , it times out and stops voice recognition .
The next time you press and release the HFL TALK button , the HFL system begins listening from the point it timed out .
If you ' ve finished or want to stop a voice command sequence at any time , press and release the HFL BACK button , or press and release the HFL TALK button , wait for the beep , and say Cancel . ' '
The next time you press and release the HFL TALK button , the HFL system begins from its main menu , and MAIN appears on the multi-information display ( MID ) in the instrument panel .
To avoid keeping the audio system muted , press and release the HFL BACK button when you are finished .
Pairing a Cell Phone
You must pair an approved Bluetooth-compatible phone to the HFL system before you can make and receive calls .
For a current list of approved phones and specific phone pairing instructions for each phone , see Checking Cell Phone Compatibility , go to www . acura . com / handsfreelink , or call ( 888 ) 528-7876 .
The following procedure works for most phones .
If you cannot pair your phone to the HFL system with this procedure , refer to your phone ' s operating manual , visit www . acura . com / handsfreelink , or call ( 888 ) 528-7876 .
Length variations in end sections to give flexibility in variable entrance ways .
You cannot pair a phone while the vehicle is moving .
Your phone must be in its Discovery mode .
A maximum of six Bluetooth-compatible phones can be paired to the system .
With your phone on and the ignition switch in ACCESSORY ( I ) or ON ( II ) , press and release the HFL TALK button .
After the deep , say Phone setup . ' '
The HFL responds , Phone setup options are status , pair , edit , delete , and list . ' '
Press and release the HFL TALK button .
After the beep , say Pair . ' '
The HFL responds , The pairing process requires operation of your mobile phone .
For safety , only perform this function while the vehicle is stopped .
Standard length 3000mm .
State a four-digit code for pairing .
Note this code .
It will be requested by the phone . ' '
After the beep , say the four-digit code you want to use .
For example , say 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 . ' '
The HFL responds , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 . Is this correct ? ' '
Press and release the TALK button .
After the beep , say Yes . ' '
The HFL responds , HFL is now searching for a Bluetooth phone .
ensure the phone you are trying to pair is in Discovery mode . ' '
Length variations in mid sections to give flexibility in variable entrance ways .
If these steps do not works on the phone you are pairing , refer to the phone ' s operating manual .
Follow the prompts on your phone to get it into its Discovery mode .
The phone will search for the HFL .
When it comes up , select HandsFreeLink from the list of options displayed on your phone .
When asked by the phone , enter the four-digit code from step 3 into your phone .
The HFL responds , A new phone has been found .
What would you like to name this phone ? ' '
After the beep , say the name you want to use .
For example , say Tom ' s phone . ' '
The HFL responds , Tom ' s phone has been successfully paired .
3000mm Typical Panel
Returning to the main menu . ' '
Pairing Troubleshooting
Many pairing issues are resolved by altering the client ' s phone settings .
Bluetooth feature settings must be turned on .
Phone manufacturers set the default to disable Bluetooth features to conserve battery life .
Cell phones may provide procedures to Temporary Power On Bluetooth ' ' , or Power On Bluetooth . ' '
Turn the Bluetooth feature on , pair the phone to the vehicle , and confirm the phone is linked .
Do this by turning the phone off and back on .
Make or receive a call to confirm the cell phone is successfully paired .
When the phone ' s Bluetooth feature is on , other handsfree accessories such as earpieces or headsets may automatically reconnect to the phone when you turn on the accessory or move it within range of the cell phone .
This results in the phone not connecting to the HFL system when the client enters the vehicle .
You must unlink the hands-free accessory from the phone before the HFL system can reconnect .
Some phones have an Auto Answer setting that functions with a headset .
This setting must be turned off or the HFL system cannot accept any incoming calls .
When this setting is on , it blocks the HFL system from answering the call , and the call goes to voice mail .
This can cause the client to think that the cell phone is not paired properly .
If the HFL system has six phones paired , it will not tell you that it has reached its maximum , and will not allow you to pair a new phone .
To check how many phones are paired , press and release the HFL TALK button .
After the beep , say Phone setup list . ' '
The HFL system lists every assigned phone name paired with it , then finishes by saying The entire list has been read .
preferred
Count number of phones listed .
If there are six , you must delete one phone before adding a new one .
Pairing Checks
Is the cell phone compatible with the HFL ?
Is the Bluetooth feature turned on ?
Is the client using the HFL buttons , not the navigation buttons , when pairing ?
Is the cell phone battery fully charged , and is there good signal strength when pairing ?
Do a soft reset on the cell phone .
If the client is trying to pair a Blackberry ® or Palm TreoTM device , ensure the client uses the shift key when entering the pass code .
If the shift key is not pressed , the client may be entering letters .
. 125X min
The HFL does not recognize letters .
For more information about pairing , refer to the cell phone owner ' s manual , or go to www . acura . com / handsfreelink .
Dropped Calls
Clients may perceive dropped calls as being an HFL system fault , but most dropped calls are resultant from cell phone and cell phone carrier issues .
The HFL system does not directly handle the cell phone signal .
It allows the cell phones to transmit the cell phone audio over the vehicle ' s audio system .
Before troubleshooting for dropped calls , confirm the cell phone settings :
Disable Audio Answer .
If Auto Answer is enabled , incoming calls are routed to voice mail .
Disable Always Ask / Trust , Authorize Device , or similar setting , If these settings are enabled , each time the HFL system attempts to link to the phone , the phone will ask if you want to connect .
If you do not allow the connection , the HFL will not operate .
The phone must be set to Never Ask , Authorize Device , etc . ( based on the phone manufacturer and carrier ) for permission .
Refer to the cell phone owner ' s manual for more information .
Disable Flip Open to a Answer .
If this setting is enabled , the phone must remain open in the vehicle .
If it is closed , the incoming calls are routed to voice mail .
Always confirm with the client if the number of dropped calls is higher while using the HFL system as opposed to using the cell phone only .
Clients often confuse problems with their phone or carrier as a problem with the HFL system .
The HFL system cannot control or determine :
Cellular connection quality
Signal strength
Cellular coverage
Ambient weather conditions that affect cellular signals
When a client complains about dropped calls , ask questions about when or where the calls are dropped , such as :
Do you drive the same route on a regular basis ?
Does the call drop in the same location ?
Where do you keep your cell phone ?
Have you compared the number of dropped calls using the HFL versus making calls from the handset ?
Does your phone have an antenna that needs to be extended ?
Many reasons for a dropped call are not related to the HFL system .
In addition , this group of people are to be familiarised with the national , international and internal safety standards , rules and instructions for accident prevention applying to this machine and they must be instructed to observe them .
EXTERIOR - PANEL AND WAVE ENTRANCE STATEMENTS
Here are some causes for dropped calls :
If the quantity of dropped calls is about the same when the client uses the HFL system versus the handset , the issue is likely due to the cellular phone or carrier .
If the phone is equipped with a retractable antenna , it needs to be extended to maximize signal strength .
If a client also notices that the calls tend to drop in the same areas , the HFL system may be operating normally , but something about the area diminishes cellular coverage to a point where the call drops .
Hills or mountains can block or interfere with cellular signals .
High-rise buildings , bridges , or other large structures may block or interfere with cellular signals .
Placing the cell phone in a purse , in a metal briefcase , under the seat , in the glove box , or in the trunk can all affect signal reception .
There are coverage gaps in the cellular service .
When driving , a call is typically passed from one tower to another .
If the client drives through an area where there is a coverage gap between towers , the call drops .
Typical Panel only 3000mm Brand Marque central to door .
Electrical storms , heavy rain , or overcast conditions interfere with signal strength .
The cell phone battery ' s state of change can affect signal reception .
A low battery may reduce the phone ' s ability to boost the antenna ' s power and function properly , especially in low signal strength areas .
Some phone manufacturers trade off signal transmission and reception strength for battery life .
As the battery weakens , the signal strength may also weaken .
Some cell phones may operate more effectively than others in low signal strength areas , especially with a partially charged battery , and depending on whether or not the retractable antenna is fully extended ( if applicable ) .
On these models , ensure the antenna is always extended to maximize signal strength and extend battery life .
Phone Will Not Automatically Connect the HFL
If a client complains that their cell phone is not automatically connecting to the HFL system when they enter the vehicle , do this :
ensure the Bluetooth feature is turned on in the cell phone .
Typical Panel and 600mm Red Wave , 3000mm Brand Marque off set .
ensure the cell phone is properly painted to the HFL system .
Do a soft reset to the cell phone .
Check if the phone has an Authorized Connection or Trusted option .
Check the battery and signal strength on the cell phone .
Pairing a phone requires optimal signal strength and a nearly full battery .
Incoming Calls
If a client complains that they cannot receive incoming calls through the HFL system , see if the call is routing to the cell phone instead of the HFL system .
An easy way to know if the call is routed to the cell phone is when the client says , I can ' t hear the caller , but they can hear me . ' '
ensure the cell phone is paired to the HFL system and linked .
ensure the answer settings in the cell phone are set to multi-key or any-key answer .
Variable end Panels to accommodate non standard doors .
If the phone is set to flip-open to answer , recommend changing the setting to Any Key or leaving the phone flipped open when using the HFL system .
ensure the Audio Answer feature is turned off in the cell phone .
Do a soft reset to the phone .
ensure the battery is fully charged and there is adequate signal strength .
Ask the client if they have set specific ring tones or ringer IDs to specific contacts .
If they have , recommend returning them to a standard ring tone for all calls .
ensure the client is pressing the HFL TALK button and not the HFL BACK button or the navigation buttons .
Outgoing Calls
If a client says that they cannot place a call using the HFL system , ask if the call was initiated through the HFL system or the cell phone itself .
If the call is placed by the HFL system :
Suggested maximum 4000mm with 600mm Red Wave .
ensure the client is pressing the HFL TALK button before each command and going through the calling process correctly .
ensure the client is pressing the HFT TALK button and not the HFL BACK button or the navigation buttons .
Check if the cell phone has an Authorized Connections or Trusted option .
If the call is placed by the cell phone :
The call will remain on the handset until you transfer it over to the HFL system .
To continue the call on the HFL system , you must use the Transfer command by pressing and releasing the HFL TALK button during an active call and saying Transfer . ' '
The client can now continue the call using the HFL system .
Glossary of Terms
Auto Answer
This cell phone setting forces incoming calls to automatically be answered by the handset .
Note , Panels illustrated are 1000mm high .
Disable this feature on the phone when using the HFL system , as it may interfere with the HFL system answering incoming calls .
Set the phone setting to Send Only , Any Key , or Multi-Key answer option .
Answer Options
These cell phone settings allow you to select how you would like to answer an incoming call on the handset .
The answer option in the phone can affect inbound calls on the HFL system .
Authorized Connection
This cell phone setting allows the phone to connect automatically with the HFL system without prompting the client for permission to connect .
In some instances , it can affect the ability of the phone to properly route sound to the HFL system .
Bluetooth Power
This cell phone function enables or disables the Bluetooth application .
The same rules of proportions apply to 750mm , 1300mm , 1500mm high panles respectively .
When using a hands free device such as HFL , the Bluetooth application needs to be enabled .
Discovery Mode
You need to have the cell phone in Discovery Mode to allow other devices with Bluetooth capabilities ( such as the HFL system ) to find the phone during the painting process .
Downloaded Ringtones
A client gets these ringtones from an outside source , such as the internet or a mobile phone store .
HFL BACK button
Use this button on the steering wheel to end a call or return to a previous prompt in the HFL menu .
Pressing the button twice or holding it down returns you to the HFL main menu .
HFL TALK button
Use this button on the steering wheel to give commands .
Typical panel 3000mm and 600mm Red Wave .
Press the button before a voice command is given .
Hard Reset
Hard resets clear the saved settings in the cell phone and restores it to the factory defaults .
A hard reset should be done only as a last resort .
Linking
This is when your paired phone is actively ready to use the HFL system .
You can pair up to six phones to the HFL system , but only one phone can be linked at a time .
If two paired phones are in the vehicle , only the phone that is linked can use the HFL system and functions .
The second phone must be used as a normal handset .
Pairing
Brand Marque off set , centred on doors .
A description for linking two Bluetooth devices together .
In this case , you are linking a cell phone with the HFL system .
After the pairing process is complete , the devices are able to recognize each other and communicate wirelessly via Bluetooth .
Soft Reset
This helps to restore the basic functions of the phone .
To do a soft reset , turn the phone power off , remove and reinsert the cell phone battery , then turn the phone back on .
This refers to the software version loaded in the cell phone .
The software version that was tested and determined to be compatible with the HFL system may be listed on the HFL web site .
Not all software versions are compatible with the HFL system .
Standard Ringtone
Typical 3400mm Panel with 1000mm Red Wave .
These ringtones come factory-installed on the cell phone .
This operation clears the HFL system of all passcode ( s ) , any paired phones , and all names in the HFL phonebook ( s ) .
Clearing the HFL system is recommend before selling the vehicle .
After the beep , say Clear ' ' and the HFL will respond , This process will clear all paired phones , clear all entries in the phonebook , and clear the passcode .
Is this what you would like to do ? ' ' .
After the beep , say Yes ' ' and the HFL will respond , Preparing to clear all paired phones , all phonebook entries , and the passcode .
This may take up to 2 minutes to complete ' ' .
This procedure should be used only if HDS is unavailable .
Press and hold the HFL BACK button for more than 5 seconds .
When the HandsFreeLink system enters the self-diagnostic function , the following occurs .
Initial Position
A potential danger is loose clothing or accessories ( e . g . jewellery ) .
If the system has not completed testing for DTCs , the HandsFreeLink system says The hands free system test is in progress . ' '
If there is no DTC , the HandsFreeLink system says The hands free system is fine . ' '
If there is any DTC , the HandsFreeLink system says The hands free system needs to be serviced . ' '
The self-diagnostic function can only be initiated while the HFL is in its idle state .
The self-diagnostic function starts after the HFL BACK button is pressed and held for 5 seconds , and ends when the HFL unit returns to its idle state .
Remove the console rear trim .
Disconnect the 28P connector ( A ) from the HandsFreeLink control unit ( B ) .
Inspect the connector and socket terminals for a good pinfit to be sure they are all making good contact .
Reconnect the connector , and make these input tests at the connector .
Possible cause if result is not obtained
The same rules of proportions apply to 750mm , 1300mm , 1500 mm high panels respectively .
Blown No . 5 ( 10 A ) fuse in the driver ' s under-dash fuse / relay box
Disconnect the 28P connector again , and make this input test at the connector .
If the input test proves OK , the HandsFreeLink control unit must be faulty , replace it .
Check for continuity between terminal No . 19 and the driver ' s under-dash fuse / relay box connector X ( 39P ) terminal No . 27 :
Driver ' s under-dash fuse / relay box connector X ( 39P ) disconnected
Short to ground
Remove the driver ' s airbag .
Disconnect the 20P connector ( A ) .
HFL Switch
No buttons pressed
Typical Panel 3400mm and 1000mm Red Wave .
HFL TALK button pressed
HFL BACK button pressed
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the switch .
Remove the screws and the printed circuit board ( A ) .
Disconnect the connectors ( B ) from the printed circuit board .
Remove the screws and the microphone ( A ) .
Install the microphone in the reverse order of removal .
General Operation
Refer to the Navigation System Manual for the navigation system operating procedures .
Anti-theft Feature
EXTERIOR - LOUVRES
The navigation system and audio unit have a coded theft protection circuit .
ensure you have the anti-theft security code before :
Disconnecting the battery .
Disconnecting the navigation unit 8P connector .
Removing the No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuse from the under-dash fuse / relay box .
After service , reconnect power to the navigation unit , and turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
Enter the 4-digit anti-theft security code , then select Done .
If the code cannot be found , use the interactive Network ( iN ) to look it up .
You can view the serial number in one of the Navi FT diagnostic screen .
Alternatively , you will need the serial number from the navigation unit under the driver ' s seat .
Louvres Spec data :
When replacing the navigation unit , be sure to give the client the new anti-theft security code .
Symptom Diagnosis
Certain circumstances and system limitations will result in occasional vehicle positioning errors .
Some clients may think this indicates a problem with the navigation system when , in fact , the system is normal .
Keep the following items in mind when interviewing clients about symptoms of the navigation system .
Self-Inertial Navigation Limitations
The limitations of the self-inertial portion of the navigation system ( the yaw rate sensor and the vehicle speed signal ) can cause some discrepancies between the vehicle ' s actual position and the indicated vehicle ' s position ( GPS vehicle position ) .
The following circumstances may cause vehicle positioning errors :
Moving the vehicle with the engine stopped and the vehicle stopped , such as by ferry or tow truck , or if the vehicle is spun on a turn table .
Tire slippage , changes in tire rolling diameters , and some driving situations may cause discrepancies in travel distances .
Individual formed letters .
Examples of this include :
Continuous tire slippage on a slippery surface
Driving with snow chains mounted
Abnormal tire pressure
Incorrect tire size
Frequent lane changes across a wide highway
Continuous driving on a straight or gently curving highway
Very bumpy roads
Tolerances in the system and map inaccuracies sometimes limit how precisely the vehicle ' s position is indicated .
Driving on roads not shown on the map ( map matching is not possible )
Aluminium cabinet painted to match Sunrise Silver .
Driving on a road that winds in one direction , such as a loop bridge , an interchange , or a spiral parking garage
Driving on a road with a series of sharp hair-pin turns
Driving near a gradual highway exit or transition
Driving on one of two close parallel roads
Making many 90 degree turns
Global Positioning System ( GPS ) Limitations
The GPS cannot detect the vehicle ' s position or elevation during the following instances :
For the first 5 to 10 minutes after reconnecting the battery ( This process can take as long as 45 minutes ) .
When the satellite signals are blocked by tall buildings , mountains , tunnels , large trees , inside parking structures or large trucks .
When the GPS antenna is blocked by metallic window tinting or by an object placed above it in the vehicle .
External acrylic / polycarbonate to match PMS200 illuminated with red LEDs .
The GPS antenna requires a clear unobstructed view of the sky .
When there is no satellite signal output ( Signal output is sometimes stopped for satellite servicing ) .
When the satellite signals are blocked by the operation of some electronic aftermarket accessories including , but not limited to non-OEM in-dash entertainment units ( radio , CD players / changers , radar detectors and theft recovery systems ) and cell phones placed near the navigation system .
The accuracy of GPS is reduced during these instances :
Metallic window tinting above the GPS antenna .
When only three or less satellite signals can be received ( Four satellite signals are required for accurate positioning ) .
When driving near high tension power lines .
When the satellite control centers are experiencing problems .
Muting Logic
Whenever the navigation system is giving guidance , the front speakers are muted .
Aluminium cabinet painted to match charcoal grey RAL 7021 .
When the voice control system is being used , all of the speakers are muted .
If the HandsFreeLink is in use , the voice control system is unavailable .
LCD Display Unit Limitations
The screen is not touch sensitive .
Use the interface dial and buttons to select items on the screen .
In cold temperatures , the display may stay dark for the first 2 or 3 minutes until it warms up .
When the display is too hot because of direct summer sunlight , it will remain dark until the temperature drops ( You may see an error message displayed stating this fact ) .
When the humidity is high and the interior temperature is low , the display may appear cloudy .
The display will clear up after some use .
Fingerprints on the screen may sometimes be noticeable because of the panel ' s low-reflection coating .
White external acrylic / polycarbonate illuminated with white LEDs .
Clean the screen with a soft , damp cloth .
You may use a mild cleaner intended for eye glasses or computer screens .
Symptom Duplication
When the symptom can be duplicated , verify that it is not a characteristic of the system .
Review the navigation system manual and compare it to a known-good vehicle ( with the same software and database ) , under the same conditions .
If the symptom is not the same , as the known-good follow the self-diagnostic procedures and the appropriate troubleshooting procedures .
When the symptom does not reappear or only reappears intermittently , ask the client about the conditions when the symptom occurred .
Always ask the client to demonstrate the problem .
Try to establish possible user error or misunderstanding of the system .
Try to establish if outside interference may have been the cause .
It must be observed that all affected persons wear the appropriate clothing and do not carry dangerous objects .
Text Akzidenz Grotesk Medium Extended .
Try to duplication the symptom under the same conditions the client experienced .
Vibration , temperature extremes , and moisture ( dew , humidity ) are factors that are difficult to duplicate .
Inspect the vehicle for after-market electronic devices ( vehicle locators , amps , radar detectors , etc . ) that may be hidden .
When interchanging navigation DVD / parts during diagnosis
When troubleshooting navigation system problems , ensure that the known-good vehicle is the same software version year and model as the vehicle being serviced .
Mixing incompatible navigation DVDs or other system components can delay the troubleshooting process by causing can effects unrelated to the original problem .
Service Precautions
If the navigation unit needs to be replaced , you can back-up the navigation data and transfer it to a new navigation unit .
See save users memory .
Before disconnecting the battery , ensure you have the anti-theft codes for the audio system and the navigation system , and write down the audio presets .
Alternate black / white acrylic .
Also obtain any PGM-FI or transmission DTCs and freeze frame date ( which will be lost when the ECM / PCM loses power ) .
When the battery is disconnected , the internal GPS clock is reset to 0 : 00 . The clock will reset to the correct time after the system finishes GPS initialization .
After reconnecting the battery , you have to wait to get the initial signal from the satellite .
It will take from 10 to 45 minutes .
Before returning the vehicle to the client , enter the anti-theft codes for the audio system and navigation system .
Adjust the setup clock settings ( time zone and daylight savings ) in the navigation system .
System Initialization
If for any reason , you lose power to the navigation system ( like the battery was disconnected ) .
The navigation system will require initialization .
Once completed , your system will be ready to use .
Formed in extruded aluminium powder coated to match Sunrise Silver PPG 5M92767 .
This initialization requires the following :
Entering the 4-digit anti-theft security code to unlock the system
GPS initialization ( may not be needed depending of the length of time the system was without power )
Map matching to align the GPS to a location on the map
Entering SFTrity Code
Any time power is disconnected from the navigation unit , the 4-digit anti-theft code must be entered on the navigation system display .
This 4-digit code can be found on a small code card that was given to the client .
Enter the 4-digit code , then select Done .
If the navigation system anti-theft code cannot be found , use the interactive Network ( iN ) to lock it up .
You will need the serial number for the navigation unit to do this .
SIZE [ ss4 ]
You can view the serial number by entering the diagnostic mode .
Select Unit Check from the main menu , then the Navi FT diagnostic screen .
This allows you to get the serial number without removing the navigation unit .
The iN may display more than one code for a given serial number .
This is because serial numbers are not unique .
You may have to try more than one 4-digit code .
If no code is shown , or if the code ( s ) given do not work in the navigation unit , contact the Automobile Warranty department .
If the code 0000 works , then replace the navigation unit .
When replacing the navigation unit or audio unit , be sure to give the client the new anti-theft security code .
GPS Initialization
Dealer name 320mm h , mounted 860mm from end of louvre
You must park the vehicle outside with a clear view of the sky .
Depending on the length of time the battery was disconnected , your system may require GPS initialization .
If it does , the following screen appears :
If this procedure is not necessary the system proceeds directly to the Disclaimer screen .
During initialization , the system searches for all available GPS satellites , and obtains their orbital information .
During this procedure the vehicle should be out in the open with a clear view of the sky .
If the navigation system finds the satellites properly , this box clears , and changes to the Disclaimer screen .
If within 10 minutes the system fails to locate a sufficient number of satellites to locate your position , the following screen appears .
If this screen is displayed , turn off the engine , then restart the vehicle and move it to a different location .
If you now see the Disclaimer screen , the GPS initialization is complete .
Retail Signs - External - Revision 2 .
The average acquiring time is less than 10 minutes , but it can take as long as 45 minutes .
If the system is still unable to acquire a signal , follow the instructions on the screen .
If this screen appears again , go to troubleshooting for the GPS icon is white or not shown .
Map Matching
This part of the initialization matches the GPS coordinates with a road on the map screen .
To perform this part of the procedure , ensure that the navigation system is displaying a map , and drive the vehicle on a mapped road shown on the map screen .
Do not enter a destination at this time .
When the name of the current road you are driving on , appears at the bottom of the screen , the entire procedure is complete .
Your system is now ready to use .
Obtaining A Navigation DVD
4 No . standard depth louvre panels at 1500mm , 1300mm , 1000mm & 750mm using a 230mm ( 9 ” ) extruded blade at equal spacing o / a module length 3000mm .
If the Navigation DVD is lost or damaged , or you need a yearly updated DVD , you have 2 ways to purchase one .
You can either call ( 888 ) 549-3798 , or order on-line at www . acura . com .
Both methclip require a credit card .
The DVD for this model has a white label , and cannot be ordered through the parts system .
The following DVDs will not work in this navigation system :
Earlier model navigation DVDs ( black label )
Map software programs manufactured by other companies
DVD movies , or DVDs containing audio recordings
Update DVDs are available for purchase usually in the fall of each year .
They may contain the following :
Framework formed in 38mm box section steel , blades formed in extruded aluminium all with powder coated finish colour Sunrise Silver PPG 5M92767 .
Enhanced maps and points of interest ( POI ) coverage
Fixes for minor software bugs
Additional features
Map matching must be done any time the DVD is removed or replaced .
Always order navigation DVDs on an as-needed basis .
During a typical model year , each color DVD may undergo a half a dozen software only version upgrades to fix minor issues on some or all models the DVD supports .
Usually only the letter at the end of the version number changes , while the database ( maps and POIs ) remain unchanged .
Never promise your clients future free updates .
There are no free programs for updating the navigation DVD .
Update DVDs are generally available for purchase each fall .
Options with or without back panel .
The on-time DVD order site provides information when an update for a particular color DVD is available .
Damaged discs are not covered by warranty unless the disc is damaged by the navigation unit .
DVD Handing and Cleaning
To avoid damaging or leaving fingerprints on the DVD , always handle it by the edges and place it in a jewel case whenever it is outside the navigation unit .
Deep scratches or fingerprints on the back of the DVD can cause intermittent rebooting or other system errors .
Smudges and fingerprints can be carefully removed using a mild cleaner and tissues designed to clean eyeglasses .
To clean a DVD , use a clean soft cloth .
Very gently wipe across the DVD from the center to the outside edge , never in a circular motion .
Do not place stabilizer rings or labels on the DVD .
Earliest DVD Version Application for Each Model
BLADE PROFILE
Each navigation system DVD contains a map / POI ( point of interest ) database and the navigation system software for each model that it supports .
Inserting an older DVD can cause problems since it lacks the software to provide the specific features needed for that model .
Unfortunately , the navigation software does not detect or warn you that the version is outdated , and it may even appear to operate .
Replacing a DVD just because the version number is higher is not always warranted .
A higher software version does not necessarily mean it contains newer software for your model .
The DVD contains software for all models that use the same color DVD , and a revised number may or may not have software fixes or upgrades for the model in question .
Typical warning symptoms that an outdated or incorrect DVD is being used include :
A newly introduced model feature or current accessory may not display properly , and Extension will display instead .
Extension may be displayed when using Music Link , but should never be displayed when XM is selected .
The current street ( the street being driven on ) may not appear properly at the bottom of the map screen display when the vehicle is driven on a main road .
The operating staff , as already described in these safety instructions , are to be trained with regard to safety .
EXTERIOR - HALF LOUVRES
If necessary , compare the operation to the navigation system of the same model and year vehicle that has a current DVD .
How to Identify Navigation DVD Versions , and How to Inspect A DVD for Damage
To determine the navigation version on a particular model , start the engine , then locate the navigation unit .
Open the DVD door , and push the eject button to eject the DVD .
Hold the DVD by the edges , and check for these items :
The label color .
Read the DVD version on the label , and note it on the repair order .
The version number is near the bottom of the label text ( for example , ver :
You will need this version number :
Dimensions as per full size louvres , with 250mm overall section width .
To verify that the DVD version is appropriate for the vehicle .
Any time you call Tech Line regarding a navigation system issue .
To answer client inquires concerning update or coverage issue .
Clients may obtain DVDs from sources outside the normal ordering process .
If you determine this is the case , recommend that your client purchase the appropriate DVD from the Disc Fulfillment Center ( see ORDERING A DVD ) .
Check the underside of the DVD for signs of mishandling .
Deep scratches , swirl marks , or fingerprints can cause random lock-ups , reboots , and DVD read or format errors .
A damaged DVD is not covered under warranty unless the disc is damaged by the navigation unit .
Damage by the navigation unit typically appears as circular scratches caused by something rubbing against the DVD as it spins .
The damage may appear as arcs or complete circles on the DVD reading surface .
Half louvre blades mounted directly on back panel .
Verify that the underside of the DVD is silver , and not a copy with a blue color .
Copies will not work properly and can cause other symptoms that mimic hardware problems .
Incorrectly colored DVDs being put into navigation vehicles .
This causes the system to either display error messages , or it causes system malfunctions that mimic a hardware problem .
This result in the client driving away with a malfunctioning navigation system .
The DVD version provided to the client is out-of date or incompatible with a particular model .
This inconveniences your client by delaying the repair , or by causing additional ( and unnecessary ) returns to your dealership .
The client experiences bugs or other issues that have already been resolved in later versions currently available at the fulfillment desk .
If the DVD is defective , or has any of the issues mentioned above , return the vehicle to your client and recommend that they order the proper DVD from the Acura Disc Fulfillment Center ( see ORDERING A DVD ) .
If it is determined that the navigation unit is defective ( through the appropriate service manual troubleshooting procedures ) and the DVD will not eject , order a replacement navigation unit , and also order a DVD from the Acura Disc Fulfillment Center .
Blades formed in extruded aluminium all with powder coated finish colour Sunrise Silver PPG 5M92767 .
How to Answer Client Questions About Navigation Coverage
Some clients may ask questions regarding a city , address or POI ( point of interest ) covered by the navigation system .
It is better to verify a coverage question on an actual vehicle than to disappoint your client by promising coverage that may be incomplete or missing in their area .
The following suggestions can be used to answer coverage inquiries from your client .
Is my address covered by the navigation system ?
Using a current production vehicle ( of the same model ) , try entering the client ' s address ( street first ) to see if their area is covered .
Always enter the street first , because sometimes their city may be included in a neighboring township , or under some larger metropolitan city name .
If the address is shown in a later year vehicle , but not your client ' s vehicle , you might want to recommend that your client purchase an update .
Is my city covered by the navigation system ?
For general questions about whether a city is covered , view the map coverage link on the DVD order site .
Back panel to match Sunrise Silver metallic coating PPG 5M92767 .
On the site , you enter a year and model , and then click on the Coverage link .
You then select a state or province , and the cities are listed .
Of course , this does not guarantee that the client ' s road or address is in the system .
Verifying on an actual production vehicle is always the best guarantee that your information is accurate .
The gas station on my corner is now a restaurant .
Why is it still incorrect in the navigation system ?
For POI-related client questions , explain that businesses are constantly moving , and there can be a considerable lag in updating the millions of POIs in the system .
The database is updated annually , and the best way to the verify whether the POI is accurate is verify the inquiry on a current production vehicle .
Answers to these and other questions regarding coverage can be found in these locations :
In the Frequently Asked Questions section of the navigation system manual .
EXTERIOR - BRAND MARK
At the on-line DVD order site , by clicking on the FAQs link ( see ORDERING A DVD ) .
How do I find the local address of a business that is part of a national chain ( for example , Caf é s Verdu ) ?
There are three ways to find the local address to businesses :
If you know the phone number of the business , select Phone Number and enter the 10 digit phone number ( area code plus seven digit number ) .
Select Category , then Restaurant .
Enter the keyword Star .
The resulting list includes all restaurants that have the letters Star anywhere in the name .
Select Name and enter Starbucks .
For more common business names , like McDonalds , you may have to search through a list that includes other businesses like McDonalds welding McDonalds Automotive , etc .
Precaution on Client Sneak Previews
Brand Mark Spec Data :
Your client might request a look ( or sneak preview ) at features in the latest navigation software .
You should never preview a navigation DVD in a client ' s vehicle .
Inserting a new DVD installs the latest software from the DVD into the memory of the client ' s navigation system .
When the original DVD is reinstalled , the newer software remains in memory and is often incompatible with the client ' s original DVD Map and POI database .
If your client wishes to see the latest navigation coverage or software features , demonstrate it on an in-stock vehicle that already has the latest DVD version .
If , by chance , a newer version is located accidentally , either by the dealer or the client , the only remedy is to enter the navigation diagnostic mode ' s Version screen and do a forced download .
Refer to the iN for applicable patches that may need reinstalling .
The navigation system is a highly-sophisticated , hybrid locating system that uses satellites and a map database to show you where you are and to help guide you to a desired destination .
The navigation system receives signals from the global positioning system ( GPS ) , a network of 24 satellites in orbit around the earth .
By receiving signals from several of these satellites , the navigation system can determine the latitude , longitude , and elevation of the vehicle .
Multi dimensional Mark Optical external grade polycarbonate with second surface translucent metalizing layer .
In addition , signals from the system ' s yaw rate sensor and the PCM ( vehicle speed pulse ) enable the system to keep track of the vehicle ' s direction and speed of travel .
This hybrid system has advantages over a system that is either entirely self-contained or one that relies totally on the GPS .
For example , the self-contained portion of the system can keep track of vehicle position even when satellite signals cannot be received .
When the navigation system is on , the GPS can keep track of the vehicle position even when the vehicle is transported by ferry .
The navigation system applies all location , direction , and speed information to maps and calculates a route to the destination entered .
As you drive to that destination , the system provides both visual and audio guidance .
This navigation system also has voice recognition that allows voice control of most of the navigation functions .
The Navigation TALK and BACK buttons on the steering wheel activate the voice control .
The voice control also allows control of the audio and climate functions .
The illumination signal ( headlights ON ) is used by the navigation unit to automatically switch the display between Night and Day brightness modes .
Black dot matrix pattern for night time 3D look .
When the instrument panel brightness control is set to full brightness ( hold both + ' ' and − ' ' key simultaneously ) , the navigation system stays in the day mode , even with the headlights on .
The GA-NET II communication bus passes information back and forth between the display panel control unit , the navigation unit and the RES / audio system .
The information passed on this bus is audio climate control settings directed by the navigation unit .
The Comm .
Bus connects the HFL , XM ( HIP ) ( AcuraLink ) , and navigation units .
This bus supports these functions :
The navigation control unit receives traffic and AcuraLink message information from the AcuraLink Control unit .
The navigation control unit sends a POI phone number ( on the Calculate route to screen ) to the HandsFreeLink control unit for dialing .
If vehicle problems are detected , and the client ' s cellular contract includes data service , then the AcuraLink control unit can send vehicle data to the HFL unit for transmitting back to the AcuraLink servers .
The AcuraLink server can pass additional problem details back through the AcuraLink Control unit , to the navigation unit for display .
Illuminated with fluorescent lamps .
Navigation Function
The navigation system is composed of the navigation unit , the PCM ( vehicle speed signal ) , the GPS antenna , the microphone , the voice control switch , the audio unit , the display unit , and the interface dial .
Function Diagram
GA-Net Bus Configuration
The GA-Net bus passes audio and navigation commands throughout the navigation and RES / audio components .
These commands include navigation audio / XM selections by voice , and XM station and music title names .
Because the entire bus is interconnected between components , an open or short in the GA-Net bus harness may cause any or all of these functions to become inoperative .
Vehicle Speed Pulse
The vehicle speed pulse is sent by the PCM .
The PCM receives a signal from the countershaft speed sensor , then processes the signal and transmits it to the speedometer and other systems .
This must be followed by instruction in the machine operating system .
letters debossed and decorated with first and second surface black 3M film .
Charge Signal and Navigation Unit Cooling Fan Operation
The ECM / PCM sends a charge signal to the navigation unit via F-CAN .
A thermistor inside the navigation unit monitors the units internal temperature .
This information combined with charge signal determines the control units internal cooling fan operation .
Yaw Rate-Lateral Acceleration Sensor
The yaw rate-lateral acceleration sensor ( located in the navigation unit ) detects the direction change ( angular speed ) of the vehicle .
The sensor is an oscillation gyro built into the navigation unit .
Sensor Element Structure
The sensor element is shaped like a tuning fork , and it consists of the piezoelectric parts , the metal block , and the support pin .
There are four piezoelectric parts :
No cladding joints to be visible within the hemisphere of the brand mark .
one to drive the oscillators , one to monitor and maintain the oscillation at a regular frequency , and two to detect angular velocity .
The two oscillators , which have a 90-degree twist in the center , are connected at the bottom by the metal block and supported by the support pin .
A detection piezoelectric part is attached to the top of each oscillator .
The driving piezoelectric part is attached to the bottom of one oscillator , and the monitoring piezoelectric part is attached to the bottom of the other oscillator .
Oscillation Gyro Principles
The piezoelectric parts have electric / mechanical transfer characteristics .
They bend vertically when voltage is applied to both sides of the parts , and voltage is generated between both sides of the piezoelectric parts when they are bent by an external force .
The oscillation gyro functions by utilizing this characteristic of the piezoelectric parts and Coriolis force .
( Coriolis force deflects moving objects as a result of the earth ' s rotation . )
In the oscillation gyro , this force moves the sensor element when angular velocity is applied .
EXTERIOR - RAPID SERVICE - 1 DOOR
Operation
The driving piezoelectric part oscillates the oscillator by repeatedly bending and returning when an AC voltage of 6 kHz is applied to the part .
The monitoring-side oscillator resonates because it is connected to the driving-side oscillator by the metal block .
The monitoring piezoelectric part bends in proportion to the oscillation and outputs voltage ( the monitor signal ) .
The navigation unit control circuit controls the drive signal to stabilize the monitor signal .
When the vehicle is stopped , the detecting piezoelectric parts oscillate right and left with the oscillators , but no signal is output because the parts are not bent ( no angular force ) .
When the vehicle turns to the right , the sensor element moves in a circular motion with the right oscillator bending forward and the left oscillator bending rearward .
The amount of forward / rearward bend varies according to the angular velocity of the vehicle .
The detecting piezoelectric parts output voltage ( the yaw rate signal ) according to the amount of bend .
The amount of vehicle direction change is determined by measuring this voltage .
Element consisting of pressed louvre panel in two sizes ( 750mm & 1000mm H ) and red faceted back illuminated signage panel ( 300mm H ) .
Global Positioning System ( GPS )
The global positioning system ( GPS ) enables the navigation system to determine the current position of the vehicle by using the signals transmitted from the satellites in orbit around the earth .
The satellites transmit the satellite identification signal , orbit information , transmission time signal , and other information .
When the GPS receiver receives a signal from four or more satellites simultaneously , it calculates the current position of the vehicle based on the distance to each satellite and the satellite ' s position in its respective orbit .
Position detection Image with GPS satellite
Precision of GPS
The precision of the GPS varies according to the number of satellites from which signals are received and the view of the sky .
The precision is indicated by the color of the GPS icon shown on the display .
GPS ICON COLOR
NUMBER OF SATELLITES
Standard width of 750mm louvre , 4850mm .
CONDITION
White GPS icon
Faulty
The GPS can ' t be utilized due to a faulty GPS receiver , open in the wire , or other fault or interference .
2 or less
Impossible to detect vehicle position
GPS function is normal .
The satellite signals received by the GPS are too few to detect the vehicle position .
Green GPS icon
Vehicle position detectable in 2 dimensions
Flat cladding to be used on small dealerships where rapid service is located near the main dealership entrance .
The longitude and latitude of the vehicle position can be detected .
( Less precise than detection in three dimensions )
4 or more
Vehicle position detectable in 3 dimensions ( elevation displayed )
The longitude , latitude and the altitude of the vehicle position can be detected .
( More precise than detection in two dimensions )
GPS Antenna
The GPS antenna amplifies and transmits the signals received from the satellites to the GPS receiver .
GPS Receiver and Clock
The GPS receiver is built into the navigation unit .
In other situations , a profiled cladding is preferred .
It calculates the vehicle position by receiving the signal from the GPS antenna .
The current time , vehicle position and signal reception condition is transmitted from the GPS receiver to the navigation control unit to adjust vehicle position .
The navigation unit calculates the vehicle position and guides you to the destination .
The unit performs map matching correction , GPS correction , and distance tuning .
It also controls the menu functions and the DVD-ROM drive , and interprets voice commands .
With control of all these items , the navigation unit makes the navigation picture signal , then it transmits the signal to the display panel control unit and audio driving instructions to the audio unit .
Calculation of Vehicle Position
The navigation unit calculates the vehicle position ( the driving direction and the current position ) by receiving the directional change signals from the yaw rate sensor and the travel distance signals from vehicle speed pulse ( VSP ) signal of the PCM .
Map Matching Tuning
The map matching occurs when you drive the vehicle along a mapped road until the road name appears of the bottom of the screen .
STANDARD CLADDING WITH STANDARD SIGNAGE ELEMENT ( 750mm Louvres )
The map data transmitted from the DVD-ROM is checked against the vehicle position data , and the vehicle position is indicated on the nearest road .
Map matching tuning does not occur when the vehicle travels on a road not shown on the map , or when the vehicle position is far away from a road on the map .
GPS Tuning
The GPS tuning is accomplished by indicating the vehicle position as the GPS ' s vehicle position .
The navigation unit compares its calculated vehicle position data with the GPS vehicle position data .
If there is large difference between the two , the indicated vehicle position is adjusted to the GPS vehicle position .
Distance Tuning
The distance tuning reduces the difference between the travel distance signal from the VSP and the distance data on the map .
The navigation unit then decreases the tuning value when the vehicle position is always ahead of the GPS vehicle position , and it increases the tuning value when the vehicle position is always behind the GPS vehicle position .
Route Guidance
Red faceted back illuminated signage panel ( 300mm H ) .
The navigation unit can calculate different routes to a selected destination .
You have five options :
Direct Route-Calculate a route that is the most direct .
Easy Route-Calculate a route that minimizes the number of turns needed .
Minimize Freeways-Calculate a route that avoids freeway travel .
If that is not possible , keep the amount of freeway travel to a minimum .
Minimize Toll Roads-Calculate a route that avoids or minimizes travel on toll roads .
Maximize Freeways-Calculate a route that uses freeways as much as possible .
Audio Guidance
The navigation unit transmits audio driving instructions before entering an intersection or passing a junction .
STANDARD CLADDING WITH STANDARD SIGNAGE ELEMENT
The audio instructions come through the audio unit to the center speaker .
The front speakers are muted whenever the navigation system is giving guidance commands , and all of the speakers are muted when the voice control system is being used .
Solar Angle
The climate control unit uses the sun ' s angle , along with the sunlight sensor , to control the driver / passenger A / C air flow .
Off Road Tracking ( bread-crumbs )
Off road tracking dots that can be followed on the map to retrace your route back to a mapped ( digitized ) road .
Clock and Time Zone
The clock set up allows you to set daylight savings time , auto time zone and time adjustment .
Muting Signal Logic
The audio muting logic is orchestrated by the audio unit .
Special features of the operating of individual control systems , differing from and / or in addition to the control system are to be taken from the operating instructions .
EXTERIOR - RAPID SERVICE STANDARD ELEMENT
The audio unit determines what audio source has priority to use the speakers .
The priority of the audio sources is as follows :
HandsFreeLink has the highest priority , followed by , AcuraLink , navigation , and finally the radio / CD-DVD player .
The priority is passed by HandsFreeLink and AcuraLink to the audio unit by dedicated mute wires .
The navigation mute signal is passed to the stereo amplifier .
The navigation unit temporarily disables the voice control buttons , but allows guidance to be heard .
In addition , the audio unit suppresses the output from the audio unit , XM receiver , disc player , or other audio accessories .
When the navigation system sends out a voice route guidance command , the door speakers are muted , and the navigation voice is heard in the center speaker .
When the navigation voice control system is in use , all of the speakers are muted , and the navigation voice prompts are heard from the center speaker .
Standard Rapid Service Elements
The DVD includes :
Map Database
Point of interest ( POI ) Database
Navigation software
The audio unit receives the voice guidance instructions from the navigation unit , and transmits the instructions through the center speaker even when the audio system is in use .
If the navigation volume and / or voice feedback is turned OFF , this feature is disabled .
Display Unit
The display unit uses a liquid crystal display ( LCD ) .
The LCD is a 8-inch-diagonal , thin film transistor ( TFT ) , strip type with 336.960 picture elements .
The color film and fluorescent light are laid out on the back of the liquid crystal film .
( heights based on standard louvre sizes 750mm and 1000mm ) .
System Set-up
Illumination control
Priority
Override conditions
Display mode button
Allows selection of Day , Night or Off display mode .
This button has the highest priority and overrides all other display control adjustments listed below .
When the car is restarted , the display mode previously selected by this button is canceled , and the display mode is determined by one of the controls below .
Sunlight Sensor ( Middle of dash near the windshield ) . ( See Owner ' s Manual for location )
If the sunlight sensor detects daylight and the headlights are turned on , the navi automatically overrides ( cancels ) the Night display and displays the Day display mode .
Text height as Dealer name .
Once the vehicle begins to move . after the word mode .
If desired , use the Display mode button to override this automatic choice .
Dash illumination adjustment knob ( See Owner ' s Manual for location )
When headlight are turned on , and you wish to have the Day display mode , then adjust the illumination to the full bright setting ( beeps ) .
When the headlights are turned ON , adjust the dash brightness down ( counterclockwise ) from the maximum brightness position .
Headlights ( On / Off )
When turned on , it changes the display to the Night display mode .
The previous 3 controls listed above can cancel this function .
Use the Display mode button , or adjust the dash illumination to full bright to set the display to your desired choice .
Map Day / Night screen color choice
Length of Louvres each side to suit situation .
The user can select the color of the screen that will be displayed for the Day , and Night display modes described above .
For best contrast , ensure that the Map color is white for Day , and black for Night .
Recommended Display mode Day / Night settings :
With the headlights on , select mid range for the dash illumination ( see Owner ' s Manual for location of knob ) .
With the headlights off , select mid range for the dash illumination ( see Owner ' s Manual for location of knob ) .
On the Setup Color adjustment screen , choose white for the map Day display , and black for the map Night display .
Inappropriate adjustment of these colors can cause the Day / Night modes to appear inoperative .
Microphone ( Mic )
Receives voice commands and transmits them to the navigation unit or HandsFreeLink unit for interpretation .
Service Without Appointment [ ss3 ]
Both system share the same microphone .
TALK Button
Activates the voice control system in the navigation unit to accept voice commands .
BACK Button
Returns the display to the previous screen ( similar function as the CANCEL button ) .
Glossary
The following is a glossary of terms pertaining to the Voice Recognition Navigation System .
This device receives information from the XM satellites and passes XM audio information to the audio unit .
In addition , traffic information is sent to the navigation unit .
Rapid Service [ ss3-20 / 20 / 27 ]
Address Book
The HFL system can import a copy of the phone book from and approved HFL compatible phone and can display the imported phone book on the navigation screen as the address book .
Body CAN Bus ( see CAN )
Bread-crumbs ( White dots )
This function can be turned on / off in Setup screen 1 .
Controller Area Network .
This communication network allows processors in the vehicle to send / receive information .
The fuel pulses used by the MID trip computer are received from the PCM using the F-CAN ( Fast Controller Area Network ) bus .
Central Processing Unit .
The main device within the navigation unit that coordinates the rest of the electronic functions .
Countershaft ( Output ) Speed Sensor .
This sensor reads the output shaft speed at the transmission and provides a speed pulse to the PCM .
Database
This consists of the Map data , and the POI ( Points Of Interest ) data stored on the DVD .
Drive By Wire .
Allows electrical control of the throttle without the need of a mechanical linkage .
EXTERIOR - INDEPENDENT PROJECTING SIGNAGE
Detailed Coverage Area .
Main metropolitan areas in the Lower 48 states , and Canada are mapped to this level .
See the navigation system manual for a list of these areas .
Diagnostic Trouble Codes .
Use the PGM Tester , or HDS tablet to obtain , and troubleshoot the cause of these codes .
Dead reckoning
The use of the speed signal , and yaw rate sensor to position the vehicle on the map even when tall buildings , or driving in a tunnel obscures the GPS signal
Digitized road
Independent mounted projecting signage in two standard sizes of 900 x 750mm and 1200 x 1000mm .
A road that appears on the navigation screen .
The road name will appear at the bottom of the navigation screen .
If the user drives off road the navigation system will display Not on a digitized road , and after 1 / 2 mile , the bread-crumbs will appear .
Disclaimer screen
Screen containing cautionary information .
It is meant to be read carefully , and acknowledged by the client when using the navigation system .
DVD or DVD-ROM
Digital Versatile Disk .
The navigation program and database resides on this disk .
See the Navigation Owner ' s Manual for information on how to order a replacement or an update DVD .
These features must be equally taught .
Brand mark sizes 600mm and 800mm .
Engine Control Module .
Typically referred to as the ECM .
FAQ
Frequency Asked Questions .
See the navigation system manual for a list of the client FAQs , and troubleshooting information .
Fast CAN Bus ( see CAN )
The GA-NET allows the audio unit to communicate with all the audio and navigation components in a vehicle .
Pole mounted versions of the above sized signage at a height of 6000mm &
If there is an open in the GA-NET , components or the entire audio and navigation system may appear inoperative .
The outside appearance of all our dealerships must support our image in France and Morrocco .
Global Positioning System .
A network of 24 satellites in orbit around the earth .
The navigation system can simultaneously receive signals from up to 12 satellites to accurately position the vehicle on the map .
The navigation screen displays our amber logo logo while booting up .
How to check for error messages with the Diagnostic System Tool
A hand held tablet PC used for diagnosing vehicle problems .
4800mm for use where pylons are restricted .
This device can be used to obtain DTC codes for diagnosis of the navigation system and CAN related problems .
HandsFreeLink uses Bluetooth technology as a wireless link between it and an approved Bluetooth compatible cell phone .
See the vehicle Owner ' s manual or Quick Start Guide for more information .
Head Unit .
The audio unit in the dash .
Initialization
This refers to the period needed to re-acquire the GPS satellite orbital information whenever the navigation system power has been disconnected .
Spec Data :
This can take from 10 to 45 minutes .
Interface Dial
This control device consists of a rotating knob and the buttons surrounding it .
This device allows control of the navigation , audio , and climate functions displayed on the screen .
Liquid Crystal Display ( the navigation screen )
Map matching
The received GPS information allows the navigation system to position the vehicle on the map .
Map matching has occurred if the map screen is displaying the current street name in the bottom-shaded area .
Abbreviation for the microphone used for receiving voice commands .
Sign Cabinet
It is located near the map light in the ceiling .
MID
Multi-Information Display
Maneuver Window .
While on-route to a destination , this window displays information about the next maneuver .
Abbreviation for the Navigation System .
Off-road tracking
See bread-crumbs .
illuminated with fluorescent lamps
Off route
This occurs when the user leaves mapped roads .
Off road tracking dots ( bread-crumbs ) are displayed if the option is enabled in the setup menu .
The user can use them to return to a mapped road .
The bottom of the navigation screen will say Not on a digitized road .
Outlying areas
These are rural areas that typically have only their main roads mapped .
All other roads are shown in light brown for reference only , since they have not been verified .
Paired
Linking your cell phone to the HFL .
Red Accent Optical , external grade polycarbonate to match PMS200 to front and base .
PC Card Slot
The PC Card ( PCMCIA , type II ) slot is for factory use only .
ensure that the sliding door is closed at all times , if opened , an error message is displayed on the screen .
Powertrain Control Module .
This unit supplies the navigation system speed signal , Also referred to as PCM .
A computer industry defined term referring to the PC Card slot standard .
Personal Identification Number , a random 4 digit number created by the client to protect personal information .
Point Of Interest .
Red Accent Optical , external grade polycarbonate to match PMS200 to front and base , illuminated with fluorescent lamps .
These are the businesses , schools , etc . found under the places option on the main menu .
Polygon
Colored areas on the map screen denoting parks , schools , etc . See the Navigation System Manual Driving to Your Destination for a list of the assigned colors .
Keyboard layout resembling the typewriter keys .
The keyboard layout can be changed to an alphabetical layout in the Setup mode .
SCS connector
The service check signal 2-pin connector used to put the navigation system into the diagnostic mode .
SFTrity code
Code needed to activate the navigation system .
Red Accent Optical .
You can get the security code from the iN by entering the navigation unit serial number .
You can find the serial number on the diagnostic screens ( unit check , Navi FT ) , or on the underside of the navigation unit .
Tuning
A continual update of internal navigation system scaling factors .
See the individual sensor tuning discussions under either System Description , or System Diagnosis Mode in this manual .
Unverified streets
These streets have not been verified for turn restrictions , one-way , etc . They are shown in light brown on the map .
You can enter address destinations in these areas , but depending on your Unverified Routing choice in setup , voice guidance may end at the last verified street closest to your destination .
Verified streets
These streets consist of the detailed metropolitan coverage areas , and all other inter-town connection roads .
Brand Marks see elsewhere .
These roads are shown in black or red on the map .
( interstates are red )
Vehicle Position .
When in map mode , this circular icon shows the vehicle position on the map .
Voice Recognition .
This allows voice control of many of the navigation functions .
The hardware consists of the microphone , voice control switch ( TALK / BACK buttons ) , and the center speaker .
See the overview for more information .
The following activities must be forbidden for the operating staff at the machine :
Fixings Charcoal Grey RAL 7021 .
Vehicle Speed Pulse .
This pulse signal coming from the PCM ( via the CSS ) is used to update the Vehicle position on the map .
These pulses do not indicate direction ( forward or backward ) .
When in reverse , the navigation receives a signal and directs the VP to move backwards on the map .
Yaw sensor
This device is located in the navigation system control unit and senses the side-to-side twisting force generated when the vehicle turns .
See a detailed description of how this sensor works in this manual .
System Function Diagram
ELEVATION
This diagram shows the features of the navigation system starting at the center and working outward in layers .
The navigation program starts at Key ON , and then displays the globe screen .
Once the disclaimer screen is acknowledged , the next shaded portions of the diagram become active .
However , some functions of the INFO and SET UP buttons , and all functions of the AUDIO and A / C buttons can be accessed immediately after the globe screen ( white ) .
The items above the map screen show various ways to set a destination , such as Go Home .
Once you begin driving to your destination , you are provided with map / voice guidance , routing cautions ( in unverified areas ) , and a directions list .
While driving to your destination , use the voice control system as much as possible to interact with the navigation , audio , and climate control systems .
Diagnostic System Diagram
This diagram represents the diagnostic slice in the Navigation Functional diagram .
The diagram shows an overview of the navigation diagnostic features starting at the center and working outward in layers .
Sign Cabinet , colour Sunrise Silver metallic PPG 5M92767 .
The diagram starts with Key on .
The diagram shows two ways to get to the diagnostic main menu :
By starting the vehicle with the SCS connector plugged in , you will enter the diagnostic System Links screen . select Return to get to the main diagnostic menu .
From any of the navigation Map or Menu screens , press and simultaneously hold the keys Menu + Map + Cancel .
The diagram shows the available diagnostic menu choices , starting at the bottom left , and moving clockwise .
In most cases , do not clear or change settings in any diagnostic screen unless instructed to do so in the explanation , or by the factory .
If the factory asks you to insert a PCMCIA memory card into the PC Slot , insert the PC card and the menu options referring to the PC card become available .
Navigation display unit connector
Navigation unit connector
Navigation Unit Inputs and Outputs for Connector A ( 20P )
Red Accent Optical , external grade polycarbonate to match PMS200 illuminated with fluorescent lamps .
Navigation Unit Connector A ( 20P )
Terminal Number
Terminal Name
Voltage ( about )
R SIG ( Red signal )
Red color signal
0,2 V AC average in RGB color diagnostic mode
If open :
Red color missing ( see RGB Color diagnostic ) .
If short to ground :
Fixings Charcoal Gray RAL 7021 .
G SIG ( Green signal )
Green color signal
Green color missing ( see RGB Color diagnostic ) .
SH SIG ( Shield signal )
Shield for terminals No . 1 , 2 , 11 , 12 , 13
No change to display .
A / C-SI ( Air conditioner serial in )
Communication signal for climate control unit
HVAC cannot be controlled by the navigation system .
ILL ( + ) ( Illumination positive )
EXTERIOR - SECONDARY SIGNAGE
Parking light on signal
Lights on :
battery voltage ,
Lights off :
When brightness = Auto , night mode for the display is inoperative when lights on .
daytime mode regardless of the condition of a light switch .
GA NET BUS SH ( GA-NET bus shield )
Shield for display bus terminals No . 10 , 20
GA NET BUS + ( GA-NET bus positive )
Date bus ( + ) GA-Net
Secondary signage ,
0 − 5 V pulses average 2,5 V depends on bus traffic
Navigation buttons do not work .
B SIG ( Blue signal )
Blue color signal
Blue color missing ( see RGB Color diagnostic ) .
C SIG ( Composite signal )
Composite video ( vertical / horizontal ) Synchronizing signal
Picture rolls horizontally , colors still visible .
GND SIG ( Ground signal )
Ground for color signal
sized 900mm h x 1200mm w x 160mm d
( Air conditioner serial out )
( Air conditioner clock )
Check signal for climate control unit
Interface dial operation signal
0 − 5 V pulses
You cannot operate navigation system
You cannot operate navigation system .
Sign to have minimum 3 No . for enclosed base .
JOG SH ( Jog shield )
Shield for interface dial signal
DISP BUS ( − ) ( Display bus negative )
Date bus ( − ) GA-Net
0 − 5 V pulses 2,5 V average ( depends on Bus traffic )
Hard buttons work OK .
Navigation Unit Inputs and Outputs for Connector B ( 14P )
Navigation Unit Connector B ( 14P )
RG L ( + ) ( Route guidance voice left positive )
Left audio signal of voice guidance , and Voice Recognition ( VR ) prompts
Secondary signage pole mounted , sized 900mm w x 1200mm h x 160mm d , with maximum 2 No . slats .
Audio signal 0,004 − 0,04 V
If voice activated , radio speakers buzz ; if voice off , no effect .
HFL MIC OUT + ( HFL mic signal positive )
Microphone output signal positive
4 − 5 V ( TALK button pressed )
microphone signal shown as red in diagnostic screens :
Navi System Link and Functional Setup Mic Level .
NAVI REMOTE SW ( Navigation remote switches )
Steering switch output
2,5 − 3 V ( BACK button pressed )
Remove the black cover .
Slat size 300mm for single & 180mm h for double slats .
Steering wheel TALK and BACK buttons do not work .
Steering wheel TALK , and BACK buttons do not work .
RG SH ( Route guidance shield )
Shield for terminals No . 5 , 12
No effect on voice output .
RG GND ( Route guidance ground )
Ground for voice guidance , and Voice Recognition ( VR ) prompts
HFL MIC OUT SH ( HFL mic signal shield )
No effect on voice control .
HFL MIC OUT − ( HFL mic signal negative )
Secondary Signage Spec Data :
Ground for microphone signal
microphone signal shown as red in diagnostics :
No effect on voice recognition .
Navigation Unit Inputs and Outputs for Connector C ( 8P )
Navigation Unit Connector C ( 8P )
+ B ( + B Power source )
Continuous power source
Display picture goes out ( display back light still on ) .
System will reboot to enter code screen .
Blows fuse No . 5 ( 10 A ) in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Silver panels to match Sunrise Silver metallic PPG 5M92767 .
Battery voltage at ACC ( 3 )
Power source for accessories
( interface dial power supply )
GND ( Ground ) ( G605 )
Ground for navigation unit
No effect on system .
BACK LT ( Back light or reverse signal )
Reverse signal of select lever from Multiplex Integrated Control Unit ' ' ( A / T ) or backup light switch ( M / T )
In reverse , battery voltage :
Otherwise 0 V
Text applied in reflective red / black 3M vinyl film cabinet type in colour to match Sunrise Silver metallic PPG 5M92717 .
Navigation never sees reverse .
Diagnostic screen Car Status , Back = 0 .
Blows fuse No . 21 ( 7,5 A ) in the driver ' s under-dash fuse / relay box .
VSP ( Vehicle speed pulse )
Vehicle speed pulse signal from PCM
No vehicle speed pulses .
Diagnostic screen Car Status , VSP Navi = 0 .
DIAG + ( Diagnostic positive )
Service check signal for navigation system
Plinth and poles Charcoal Grey RAL 7021 .
5 − 6 V
System goes into diagnostic mode at key ON ( I ) and ( II ) .
DIAG − ( Diagnostic negative )
Ground for service check signal
The system will not go into diagnostic mode when using the SCS jumper .
Navigation Unit Inputs and Outputs for Connector D ( 7P )
Navigation Unit Connector D ( 7P )
CAMERA VCC ( VCC supply )
SECONDARY SIGNAGE
Power source for rearview camera
No rearview camera image .
When put into reverse , the navigation screen goes black ( backlight still operative ) .
If this wire is shorted to ground , the navigation unit can be permanently damaged .
VIDEO ( Video camera )
Video signal for rearview camera
CAMERA SH ( Shield and ground for camera )
Shield for terminal No . 1 to No . 7
No change to rearview camera image .
CAMERA ADPT ( Adaptive camera )
SECONDARY SIGNAGE POLE MOUNTED
Control signal for rearview camera
Navigation Unit Inputs and Outputs for Connector E ( 2P )
Navigation unit connector E ( 2P )
GPS signal
GPS icon on screen is white , system links screen ANT shows NG .
If short to body ground :
Same as open .
Ground for GPS signal
Navigation Unit Inputs and Outputs for Connector F ( 6D )
sized 900mm h x 1200mm w x 225mm d .
Navigation Unit Connector F ( 6D ) With AcuraLink
HFL COMM3 ( HFL communication 3 )
Communication signal for HFL
Solid red HFL icon in Navi System Link
HFL COMM4 ( HFL communication 4 )
HFL COMM1 ( HFL communication 1 )
HFL icon in Navi System Link changes between red and green
HFL COMM2 ( HFL communication 2 )
SH HFL ( Shield HFL )
Shield for terminals No . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
Silver panels to match Sunrise Silver Metallic PPG 5M92767 .
Navigation Unit Connector F ( 6D ) Without AcuraLink
Navigation Display Unit Inputs and Outputs for 20P Connector
Navigation Display Unit 20P Connector
+ B ( + B power source )
Screen completely off ( no backlight visible ) .
Power source for accessory
Display and buttons do not work .
GA NET BUS + ( GA-NET bus positive )
Data bus ( + ) GA-Net
Navigation hard buttons do not work .
Navigation hard buttons XM / AcuraLink and RES do not work .
SCTY ( 1 ) ( SFTrity positive )
SFTrity signal
If security system set , it will not trip when screen is removed .
If short :
GND ( Ground )
Ground for display unit
ILL ( + ) ( Illumination positive )
Mount the green cover .
Customer Parking
Parking light on signal from dash and console light
battery voltage , Lights off :
When brightness Auto , night mode for the display is inoperative when lights on .
Blows small light relay in under-hood fuse / relay box .
GA NET BUS SH ( GA-NET bus negative )
GA NET BUS − ( GA-NET bus negative )
Navigation hard buttons work OK .
SCTY ( 3 , 4 ) ( SFTrity negative )
EXTERIOR - MILESTONE
Composite video ( vertical / horizontal ) synchronizing signal
SIG SH ( Signal shield )
Rearview Camera Inputs and Outputs for 6P Connector
Rearview Camera 6P Connector
Shield for terminal No . 5
Milestone
CAMERA VIDEO ( Video camera )
When put into reverse , navigation screen goes black ( display backlight still operative ) .
Vehicle position icon constantly leaves road , moves erratically , or is displayed very far from actual vehicle position
This is not the same condition as when driving off-road ( or on a fire or logging road ) .
This condition is caused by a loss of map matching from a bad sensor input .
Check for aftermarket metallic window tinting or other objects that can block the GPS signal .
Always do the Map matching before proceeding with the troubleshooting .
Always ensure that the correct DVD color and version are installed .
Sales
Inspect the DVD for dirt or damage .
Check the GPS icon on the navigation picture .
Is the GPS icon white ?
Do the troubleshooting for GPS icon is white or not shown .
Go into the Diagnostic Menu , and use the Yaw Rate test to check the yaw rate sensor .
Go into the Diagnostic Menu , and use the Car Status test to check the vehicle speed pulse .
Are the yaw rate sensor and vehicle speed pulse OK ?
The problem may be normal .
Check to see if the problem occurs in the same place .
If it does , the problem could be in the database .
Service
If the problem is the yaw rate sensor , replace the navigation unit .
If the problem is the vehicle speed pulse , check for an open in the wire between the navigation unit and the PCM .
If the wire is OK , troubleshoot the vehicle speed signal circuit .
Substitute a known-good navigation unit , and check to see if the problem occurs in the same place .
Does the problem occur in the same place ?
The problem is in the database .
Report the problem according to the Navigation System Manual under Reporting Errors ' ' .
Replace the original navigation unit .
Navigation system will not accept security code
Follow the this procedure .
( After 10 consFTtive tries , you must cycle the key to continue trying )
The Navigation System Diagnosis and Core Return Form is available online , under Job aids and can be printed out for recording this information .
This information will help the remain facility determine what caused the failure .
Check for and resolve all CAN DTCs before troubleshooting the navigation system .
Before troubleshooting , ensure you have the anti-theft codes for the navigation system .
Verify that the correct navigation unit is installed for this model .
Go into the Diagnostic mode , and use Version .
ensure that the correct DVD color and version are installed .
Go into the System diagnosis menu , select Unit check , and then Navi FT .
A brief diagnostic will run for 20 seconds , and the serial number is then displayed .
Milestone , size 1800 x 1600mm high , foot print as pylons .
Is the serial number displayed ?
Replace the navigation unit .
Obtain the Serial Number ( 3 letters followed by 8 numbers ) from the label on the underside of the navigation unit ( not the display unit ) .
Using the Serial Number , look up the navigation security code in the Interactive Network .
( click :
Service , Vehicle Information , Anti-Theft code Inquiry , and then select Navigation from the product dropdown box ) .
Enter the serial number .
Is a 4-digit code displayed ?
Call the Warranty Department , the telephone number is listed in the PDI / TQI bulletin , to obtain the code .
Then go to .
Milestone Projecting ( Pole Mounted / Building Mounted ) , size 1200 x 1000mm high , same unit as independent projecting signage .
Check the obtained code work to bypass the code screen .
Does the code work ?
Try entering four zeros ( 0000 ) in place for the code .
Do the four zeros work to bypass the code screen ?
Replace the control unit , and enter SFTrity code is 0000 in the problem description field of the core return form .
Replace the control unit , and enter Won ' t take security code ' ' ( as proof , enclose the sticker that contains the Serial number and the Code ) in the problem description field of the core return form .
Navigation frequently asks for anti-theft code and / or needs GPS initialization
This is often caused by a loss of battery power or a poor ground .
Disconnect navigation unit connector A ( 8P ) , and check for loose terminals .
Are any of the replace the terminals loose ?
Milestone Spec Data :
Repair or replace the loose terminal ( s ) .
Measure the voltage between body ground and navigation unit connector C ( 8P ) terminals No . 1 and No . 2 individually .
If the + B wire does not have voltage , repair open in the wire between the under-hood fuse / relay box and navigation unit connector C ( 8P ) .
Accessory
Measure the voltage between navigation unit connector C ( 8P ) terminal No . 4 and body ground .
Is there 0,2 V or less ?
Repair open or high resistance in the wire between navigation unit connector C ( 8P ) and body ground ( G605 ) .
GPS icon is white or not shown
Diagnostic Test :
Navi System Link
Silver panels colour Sunrise Silver Metallic PPG 5M92767 .
With good reception , the icon is normally green .
ensure the GPS antenna is plugged in .
Check for any aftermarket accessories that may be interfering with the GPS signal .
ensure the vehicle is parked outside and away from buildings .
Refer to GPS Information for real-time satellite reception display .
Check for metallic window tint on the windshield and electronic aftermarket accessories ( possibly hidden ) mounted near the GPS antenna or the navigation unit .
Is there metallic window tint or electronic accessories ?
Remove tint or the accessories , and recheck .
Go into the Diagnostic mode , and use the Navi System Link diagnostic to check the GPS antenna .
Is the GPS Ant icon red ?
improper use ,
Wordmark External acrylic / polycarbonate to match PMS200 .
Check for a kinked , crushed , or disconnected GPS antenna wire .
If icon is still red , replace the GPS antenna .
Check that nothing is blocking the GPS antenna located under the rear shelf , and recheck .
Substitute a known-good GPS antenna , and recheck .
If the symptom is gone , replace the GPS antenna .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good navigation unit , and recheck .
If the symptom is gone , replace the original navigation unit .
Vehicle icon wanders across the map when driving ( does not follow a displayed road ) or map vehicle ICON spins
This is not the same condition as when driving off-road ( or on a fire or logging road ) .
Check for aftermarket or other objects that can block the GPS signal .
Text allied in reflective red / black 3M vinyl cabinet type to match colour Sunrise Silver metallic PPG 5M 92767 .
Always do Map matching before proceeding with the troubleshooting .
After troubleshooting , enter the anti-theft codes for the navigation system .
Check the DVD for damage or scratches .
Is the GPS icon white or missing ?
Go into the Diagnostic mode , and use the Yaw Rate diagnostic to check the yaw rate sensor .
Is the yaw rate sensor OK ?
Go into the Diagnostic mode , and use the Car Status diagnostic to check the vehicle speed pulse ( VSP ) and the BACK signals .
Are the vehicle speed pulse and the BACK signals OK ?
The problem may be a characteristic of the system .
Check to see if the problem occurs in the same place in a known-good vehicle .
MILESTONE
If the problem is the vehicle speed pulse , troubleshoot the vehicle speed signal circuit .
BLU wire for open or short .
If OK , swap a known-good PCM .
If the problem or symptom goes away , replace the original PCM .
If the BACK signal is indicated ON ( I ) , when in any shift lever position other than reverse , troubleshoot the back-up light switch circuit or MICU .
The problem is in the database and should be considered a characteristic of the system .
Report the problem according to the Navigation System Manual under Reporting Errors , and look for improvements in future databases .
No picture is displayed
Always check the connectors for poor connections or loose terminals .
Before troubleshooting , ensure you have anti-theft code for the navigation system .
POLE MOUNTED
For problems with the rearview camera , do the rearview camera does not come on or work properly troubleshooting .
Check the No . 5 ( 10 A ) , No . 7 ( 10 A ) fuse and No . 32 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse relay box , and reinstall the fuses if they are OK .
Operate the radio and listen to the audio .
Can you hear the audio ?
If the white wire does not have voltage , repair open in the wire between the under-dash fuse / relay box and the navigation unit .
If the + B wire does not have voltage , repair open in the wire between the under-dash fuse relay box and the navigation unit .
Troubleshoot the ACC circuit .
Repair open in the wire between the navigation unit and body ground ( G605 ) .
Do the forced starting of the display .
BUILDING MOUNTED
Is the diagnosis menu of the picture diagnosis displayed ?
Go into the Diagnostic mode , and use the Navi System Link diagnostic to check the links .
Shield the display unit from the sun with your hand , and check that the display is back lit ( only back light is ON . )
Can you see the back light ?
Replace the navigation unit and retest .
If the problem is still present , replace the navigation display unit .
Measure the voltage between body ground and the navigation display unit 20P connector terminals No . 1 and No . 2 individually .
If the + B wire does not have voltage , repair open in the wire between the under-dash fuse relay box and the navigation display unit 20P connector .
If the blue wire does not have voltage , repair open in the wire between the driver ' s under-dash fuse / relay box and navigation unit connector SD .
Measure the voltage between the navigation display 20P connector terminal No . 10 and body ground .
1800 x 1600mm high , foot print as pylons .
Replace the navigation display unit .
Repair open or poor connections between the navigation display and body ground ( G506 ) .
Picture has lines or rolls
Monitor Check
Always check the navigation screen settings for brightness , contrast , black level and the color screen for map color and menu color .
Before troubleshooting , ensure you have anti-theft code for the audio system and the navigation system .
Always compare the screen image to a known-good vehicle .
If the screen looks the same , inform the client that it is characteristic of the system .
Check for electronic aftermarket accessories ( possibly hidden ) mounted near the navigation display unit or the navigation unit .
Are there any electronic accessories ?
Air Suction Valve Cover with Hose
Disable the accessories , and recheck .
Start up the navigation picture .
Is the picture scrolling horizontally ( left to right or right to left ) ?
Check for an open or short to ground in the C SIG wire from navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) terminal No . 12 to navigation display unit 20P connector terminal No . 19 .
Also check for a short to ground between navigation display unit 20P connector terminal No . 19 and terminal No . 20 .
Go into the Diagnostic mode , and use RGB Color diagnostic under Monitor Check .
Is the picture missing a red , green or blue color ?
Do troubleshooting for the picture is missing a color or tone or is an odd color .
Substitute a known-good navigation display unit , and recheck .
Is the picture OK ?
Stick Coils
Check for loose connections , then replace the original navigation display unit .
Check for loose connections and recheck .
If a poor connection or loose terminal is found , replace the shielded harness .
If no poor or loose terminals are found , substitute a known-good navigation unit , and recheck .
If the problem is gone , replace the original navigation unit .
Picture is missing a color or tone or is an odd color
Check for aftermarket accessories that may interfere with the navigation system .
Check the navigation screen settings for brightness , contrast , black level and the color screen for map color and menu color .
Go into the Diagnostic Menu , and use RGB Color test under Monitor Check .
Are the red , green , and blue colored circles shown ?
Cylinder Head Cover Bolts
Disconnect navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) and the navigation display unit 20P connector .
Check for loose terminals at navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) and the navigation display unit 20P connector .
Are there loose terminals ?
Repair the terminal .
Check for continuity between the appropriate terminals of navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) and the navigation display unit 20P connector based on the missing color ( s ) .
Missing color
Navigation unit connector A ( 20P )
Navigation display unit 20P connector
There is an open in the circuit between the navigation display unit and the navigation unit .
Check for poor connections or loose terminals at the navigation display unit and navigation units .
Bond ( Silicone Sealant )
If a poor connection or loose terminal is found , replace the affected shielded harness .
Navigation unit connector A ( 12P )
Navigation display unit 20P connector
There is a short to body ground in the circuit between the navigation display unit and the navigation unit .
Replace the affected shielded harness .
If the problem is still unresolved , replace the navigation display unit .
Traffic information is not shown on map screen
If your client complains that traffic is not being displayed , it could be because a traffic setting is not correct .
Before troubleshooting , get the navigation system anti-theft codes .
After troubleshooting , enter the navigation system anti-theft codes .
( above presentator )
repairs ,
Dowel Pins
A poorly performing charging system may cause the R2D2 unit to malfunction .
The car is equipped with an auto start feature that keeps the starter motor engaged , even when you release the ignition switch .
Due to the ignition design , if a client releases the ignition switch before the engine starts , the C3PO unit may receive unusually low voltage .
This may cause the C3PO to malfunction .
When starting the vehicle , hold the ignition switch to START ( III ) position until the motor starts .
Test the battery condition .
Is the battery in good condition ?
Troubleshooting the battery and / or charging system and recheck .
Park the vehicle outside where you have a clear view of the southern sky .
Plug Hole Gaskets [ D ]
Start the engine by holding the ignition switch to START ( III ) position until the engine starts to over-ride the auto-start feature .
Check the real-time traffic display of a known-good vehicle to ensure that the XM NavTraffic is being broadcast in your area .
You may have to wait 5 minutes for the traffic display to refresh .
Is real-time traffic shown on the map of the known-good vehicle ?
Call Acura Client Services at ( 800 ) 382-2238 , and check to see if there are any traffic system outages or blackouts in your area .
Some cities feature incident icons only .
A temporary lack of incident icons may give the impression that the system is not working properly .
ensure the client ' s XM NavTraffic account status is active .
This account is separate from the regular XM radio subscription , and it has a separate fee .
For the ' 07-09 MDX , real-time traffic is free for the first 3 months .
Support the motorcycle on a firm , level surface with the side stand .
To check the XM NavTraffic account status :
Call XM Satellite Radio at ( 800 ) 852-9696 .
ensure you have :
XM Radio ID ( shown on channel 000 )
From the automated phone menu , select tech support .
Inform the agent that you are working on an Acura vehicle , and ask then to check the XM NavTraffic account status .
It is possible the client owns more than one vehicle capable of displaying real-time traffic .
Have the agent confirm that the XM NavTraffic subscription applies to the vehicle VIN you are working on .
Is the XM NavTraffic account status active ?
If the free trial period is expired , return the vehicle to the client , and inform them how to renew their XM NavTraffic subscription by calling XM Radio at ( 800 ) 852-9696 .
Lock the steering .
If the free trial period has not expired , call XM Radio at ( 800 ) 852-9696 and reactivate the account for the reminder of the free trial period , then request a rapid refresh .
To do a rapid refresh :
Park the vehicle outside in a clear area with the engine running .
Turn the audio system on , and tune to an XM radio channel .
Wait 30 minutes
If the vehicle now receives real-time traffic information , return the vehicle to the client .
Updating the AcuraLink unit software .
Are there any applicable product updates or service bulletins ?
Do the applicable product updates and service bulletins , then retest the vehicle .
If real-time traffic does not wore , Go to .
The motorcycle is equipped with a vehicle-down sensor , which causes the engine to stop automatically and the fuel injection indicator light to flash when the motorcycle falls down .
Verify that you are receiving a signal from XM :
Park the vehicle outside with a clear view of the southern sky .
Turn on the audio system , and tune to XM channels 000 , 001 , 174 , or 247 .
Can you tune XM channels 000 , 001 , 174 , or 247 ?
Refer to the applicable service manual , troubleshoot the XM radio , and retest . if real-time traffic still does not work , go to .
ensure the navigation map is set to either the 1 / 2 , 1 , 2 , or 5 mile scale . if the scale is not set to one of these values , either rotate the interface dial knob , or use the zoom in / zoom out buttons to adjust the map to proper scale .
Do you see real-time traffic on the navigation display ?
Return the vehicle to the client , and explain the proper settings .
ensure the real-time traffic settings are correct .
Press the map / guide button , then select the map menu by pressing in the selector button .
Cylinder Head Cover Bolts : 12 N · m ( 1.2 kgf · m )
Select Show Icon on Map by turning the interface dial , then pressing in the selector button .
Select the Traffic icon from the icon selection bar at the bottom of the navigation display .
The icon should turn solid blue when you select it .
If it does not turn solid blue , go to .
Select icon options by pushing the selector to the right .
From the Select category for icon settings menu , select the Traffic choice .
Select traffic speeds by pressing in the selector on the Select Traffic info screen .
It should turn solid blue .
Turn the interface dial to select Traffic icons , and press in the selector in again .
Both Traffic speeds and Traffic Icons must be solid blue .
Install the baffle plate .
Push the selector to the right ( DONE ) to complete the process .
Do the diagnostic mode checks :
Start the vehicle , and enter the navigation diagnostic mode by pressing and holding the Menu , Map / Guide , and Cancel buttons .
Select Navi System from the Navigation Diagnosis Items menu , and verify that all the icons are green .
If any links / icons are red , refer to the applicable service manual for repair information , then go to .
Return to the main Navigation Diagnosis Items menu and select XM ( HIP ) , then select XM ( HIP ) System Link , and verify that the links / icons are green .
Confirm the Traffic Channel settings of the AcuraLink unit .
Return to the XM ( HIP ) diagnostic menu .
Select XM ( HIP ) FT .
Select the Traffic channel choice .
Crankshaft Sensor Bolts : 5.9 N · m ( 0.60 kgf · m )
Do not touch or select the Data Reset choice .
Confirm the settings :
Adjust the setting ( s ) if necessary as any other setting will prevent real-time traffic from displaying .
Press the cancel button twice to return to the XM ( HIP ) diagnostic menu Select the on-screen Return button to fully exit the diagnostic mode .
Turn the vehicle off .
Wait 20 seconds , and start the vehicle .
Park the vehicle outside with a clear view of the southern sky , and verify you are receiving an XM radio signal ( see ) .
Do you see real-time traffic on the display ?
Camshaft Chain Tensioner Cap Bolt : 20 N · m ( 2.0 kgf · m )
Return the vehicle to the client .
Reset the AcuraLink unit :
ensure you have the anti-theft codes for the audio system and the navigation system .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , then pull the back-up fuse from the under-hood fuse / relay box .
For under-hood fuse / relay box location , refer to the applicable service manual .
Wait 2 minutes , then re-install the fuse .
Start the vehicle .
Enter the anti-theft codes for the audio system and the navigation system .
Let the navigation system boot , then select one of the traffic scales ( 1 / 2 , 1 , 2 , 5 miles ) .
Substitute a known-good AcuraLink control unit , and retest the vehicle .
Install the spring and washer .
Replace the original AcuraLink control unit .
Register the new AcuraLink control unit with XM radio and Acura Client Services .
Substitute a known-good navigation control unit .
If the problem goes away , replace the original navigation control unit .
Display day / night mode does not work or does not work properly
Turn the headlight on the check that the dash brightness setting is not set to high .
Before troubleshooting , ensure you have anti-theft codes for the audio system and the navigation system ( if equipped ) .
After troubleshooting , enter the anti-theft codes for the audio system and the navigation system ( if equipped ) .
Adjust the A / C using voice commands .
Can you control the A / C by voice command ?
the opening of , and working with , electrical equipment ,
Milestone Projecting
Do navigation cannot control A / C by voice troubleshooting .
Turn the headlights on , and adjust the dash brightness up and down , then to the middle range .
Does the display change to day and night modes when turning the headlights on and off ?
Cover the sunlight sensor on the dash , then turn the headlight on and off .
Does the navigation display dim and brighten normally ?
Check the ILL + circuit for an open or short to ground between the navigation display to the gauge control module .
If OK , substitute known good units in this order and recheck the system :
Navigation unit
Gauge control unit
System locks up or freezes constantly
1200 x 1000mm high , same unit as independent projecting signage .
Check the GPS and VSP signals in the GPS information check and car status .
Start the engine , turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
Does the system reboot , lock up , or freeze ?
Check the DVD for the correct color , software version , scratches or damage and the navigation unit for water damage .
If OK , go into the Diagnostic mode , and do all of the Unit Check diagnostics .
If all tests are OK , replace the navigation unit .
Voice guidance cannot be heard , is broken up , or there is static
Check the navigation volume level ( see Owner ' s Manual ) .
Before troubleshooting , ensure you have anti-theft codes for the audio system and navigation system .
After troubleshooting , enter the anti-theft codes for the audio system and navigation system .
MILESTONE PROJECTING MILESTONE
Press the display unit SET-UP button .
Check the volume and voice feedback setting for the navigation system in set-up .
Is either set to OFF ?
Set the voice feedback to ON , and select an audible level for the volume .
Check the radio operation .
Can you hear the radio ?
Troubleshoot audio system .
Go into the Diagnostic mode , and use the Navi System Link diagnostic to check the radio .
Is the Radio icon red ?
Troubleshoot the audio system .
EXTERIOR - DIRECTIONAL / LOCATION OPTIONS
Disconnect navigation unit connector B ( 14P ) and the stereo amplifier connector A ( 28P ) .
Check for continuity between body ground and navigation unit connector B ( 14P ) terminals No . 5 and No . 12 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire between the navigation unit and stereo amplifier units .
Check for continuity between navigation unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 11 and terminals No . 5 and No . 12 individually .
Check for continuity between navigation unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 5 and the stereo amplifier unit connector A ( 28P ) terminal No . 21 .
There is an open in the circuit between the navigation unit and stereo amplifier .
Check for poor connections or loose terminals at the stereo amplifier and navigation unit .
There is an open in the circuit between the navigation unit and the stereo amplifier .
Substitute a known-good stereo amplifier , and recheck .
Is the system OK ?
Wall Mounted Signage
Replace the stereo amplifier .
Voice control does not work / respond
Mic Level
Before assuming that a voice complaint is hardware related , ensure that the voice control system is being operated correctly .
ensure you are on the correct screen when trying to issue a voice command .
For instance , the command Find the nearest Italian Restaurant only works on Map screen .
( See the Navigation System manual for a complete list of allowed voice commands for the information being displayed ) .
Close the windows and sunroof .
Set the fan speed to low ( 1 or 2 ) .
Adjust the air flow from the air conditioning vents so that they do not blow against the microphone on the ceiling .
Panel sizes in 900mm h x 1200mm w 75mm d .
Pause after pressing the TALK button then give a voice command clearly in a natural speaking voice .
If the system cannot recognize your command , speak louder .
If the microphone picks up voices other than yours , the system may not interpret your voice commands correctly .
If you speak a command with something in your mouth , or your voice is too husky , the system may misunderstand your command .
Check for a loose roof console microphone ; if it ' s loose , tighten it .
Before troubleshooting , ensure you have the anti-theft codes for the audio system and navigation system ( if equipped ) .
After troubleshooting , enter the anti-theft codes for the audio system .
Determine if the problem only happens to one person , or everyone who uses the system .
If the system only has a problem with one person ' s voice , this should be considered a system limitation .
Go into the Diagnostic Menu , and use the Mic Level test the under Functional Setup to check the operation of the TALK and BACK buttons .
Projecting and Ceiling Hung Signage :
Are the TALK and BACK buttons operational ?
Check for an open or short to ground on navigation unit connector B ( 14P ) terminal No . 10 .
Use the Mic Level diagnostic under Functional Setup to check the operation of the microphone .
Is the microphone operational ?
Check the operation of the voice control system ( see the Navigation System Manual ) .
Check for a loose front map light ( microphone ) assembly .
If OK , check for an open or short to ground on navigation unit connector B ( 14P ) terminals No . 6 and No . 14 .
Navigation cannot control HVAC by voice command
Before troubleshooting , ensure you have anti-theft codes for the navigation system .
Check on-line for service bulletins or other service information for the navigation system .
Panel sizes in 2 No . options 900 mm h x 1200mm w 150mm d & 450mm h x 600mm w x 75mm d .
Check for B-CAN or F-CAN DTCs in the data list .
Are there any DTCs in the B-CAN or F-CAN systems ?
Troubleshoot and repair all CAN related DTCs , and then retest .
Check the navigation system for normal operation .
Does the navigation system function normally in all other operations ?
Refer to the navigation symptom troubleshooting .
Troubleshoot and repair any other problems , then retest .
Disconnect climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) .
Check for continuity between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) according to the table .
Climate control unit connector A ( 40P )
Typical projecting ceiling hung and wall mounted directional and location signage options all with interchangeable slats .
Navigation control unit connector A ( 20P )
Is there continuity on all wires ?
Repair open in the affected wire ( s ) between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) .
Check for continuity between each wire in the navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) according to the table .
Is there continuity to any other wire ?
Repair short in the affected wire ( s ) between climate control unit connector A ( 40P ) and navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) .
Check for continuity between navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) and body ground according to the table .
Is there continuity to ground ?
Repair short to ground in the affected wire ( s ) .
Measure the voltage between navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) terminals No . 4 , No . 14 , and No . 15 and body ground .
Directional / Location Signs Spec Data :
Is there more than 0,2 V to ground on any wire ?
Repair short to power on the affected wire ( s ) .
Substitute and a known-good climate control unit .
Reconnect all connectors and retest .
Does the symptom go away ?
Replace the original climate control unit .
Navigation cannot control XM radio
ensure the anti-theft code for the audio system is entered .
Go into the Diagnostic mode , and use the Navi System Link diagnostic .
Is the XM icon red ?
the dismantling or manipulating of protective equipment and covers ,
Silver panels colour Sunrise Silver metallic PPG 5M92717 .
Do the troubleshooting for the voice guidance cannot be heard .
Substitute the known-good navigation unit .
Can the navi control XM radio ?
Do the audio system troubleshooting .
Navigation cannot control audio / disc / rear entertainment
Can the navi control audio / disc ?
Interface dial buttons do not work
Confirm the correct DVD color and version disc is installed in the navigation unit as the wrong DVD or software version can cause a hardware malfunction .
Before troubleshooting , ensure you have the anti-theft code for the audio system and the navigation system .
Service text red / black 3M reflective vinyl .
Go into the Diagnostic mode , and use Hard Key test under Unit Check .
Does the interface dial and / or joystick work properly ?
Measure the voltage between the interface dial 6D connector terminal No . 4 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the under-dash fuse / relay box and the interface dial .
Measure the voltage between interface dial 6D connector terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Repair open in the wire between the interface dial and body ground ( G506 ) .
Disconnect the interface dial 6D connector and the navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) .
Check for continuity between navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) terminal No . 17 and interface dial 6D connector terminal No . 1 .
There is an open in the circuit between the interface dial and the navigation unit .
Check for continuity between navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) terminals No . 17 and No . 19 .
Fixing Charcoal Gray RAL 7021 .
There is a short in the wire .
Substitute a known-good interface dial , and recheck .
Replace the original interface dial .
Rearview camera image does not come on or work properly
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and start the engine .
Does the Navigation screen come on and show an image when the vehicle is started ?
Go to troubleshooting for No picture is displayed .
Go into the diagnostic menu , and use the Navi System Link test to check the connection between the navigation unit and the rearview camera .
Is the R-camera link on the screen ?
Confirm the system connection .
CEILING MOUNTED SIGNAGE
Is the R-camera link red on the screen ?
Go to Car Status , and check the BACK-Reverse indication status .
Check the connections between the navigation unit connector D ( 7P ) and the rearview camera connector ( 6P ) .
Are the connections OK ?
Repair the poor connection , and reconnect the connectors .
Disconnect the navigation unit connector D ( 7P ) and the rearview camera connector ( 6P ) .
Check for continuity between the navigation unit connector D ( 7P ) and the rearview camera connector ( 6P ) according to the table .
Repair open in the wire between the navigation unit connector D ( 7P ) and the rearview camera connector ( 6P ) or replace the affected shield harness .
Check for continuity between the navigation unit connector D ( 7P ) and body ground according to the table .
Then check for continuity between the navigation unit connector D ( 7P ) terminal No . 6 , rearview camera 6P connector terminal No . 2 and same terminals .
PROJECTING SIGNAGE
Repair short in the wire between the navigation unit and the rearview camera , or replace the affected shielded harness .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and measure the voltage between navigation unit connector D ( 7P ) and body ground according to the table .
Is there more than 0,5 V ?
Repair short to power in the wire between the navigation unit and the rearview camera , or replace the affected shielded harness .
Reconnect the rearview camera connector ( 6P ) .
Substitute and connect a known-good navigation unit , and check the rearview camera image in reverse .
Is the rear view image OK ?
Replace the rearview camera .
Press the Return in the upper light corner of the screen to return the main menu , then go to Version .
WALL MOUNTED SIGNAGE
Check the model code that is displayed .
Is the correct navigation unit model code displayed for this vehicle ?
The wrong navigation unit is installed .
Replace the navigation unit with the correct part .
Remove the DVD disc from the navigation unit , and check the label color of the DVD disc .
Is the DVD disc label white ( or possibly gray for Canada ) ?
Reinsert the DVD disc , and go to .
Replace the DVD disc with the correct color .
See the Obtaining a Navigation DVD in the General Troubleshooting Information .
Navigation display stays on with ignition switch in LOCK ( 0 )
EXTERIOR - INDIVIDUAL SIGNAGE
After troubleshooting , re-enter the anti-theft code , and re-initialize the navigation system .
The vehicle may have been used for a show event .
Check for a short jumper harness in-line with the navigation unit connector C . If a jumper harness is present , remove it and return it to Tech Line .
Remove the key from the ignition .
Does the navigation screen stay on ?
Check for a short to power on navigation unit connector C ( 8P ) terminal No . 2 .
Is there a short ?
If the red wire does not have voltage , repair open in the wire between the under-dash fuse / relay box and the navigation display unit X connector .
DVD screen error messages
Car Status
Ceiling mounted signage in 2 No . sizes
Confirm the correct DVD color and version disc is installed in the navigation unit .
Refer to General Troubleshooting for a list of common DVD screen error messages and the probable causes .
Go into the Diagnostic mode , and use the Car Status diagnostic to check the status of the DVD lid .
Inspect the navigation DVD for scratches or damage .
The following troubleshooting is for the error messages shown on the error message table .
Check the DVD-ROM reading surface for scratches and finger prints .
Are there any scratches or finger prints on the DVD-ROM reading surface ?
Clean or replace the DVD-ROM .
If the problem occurs occasionally when the system is cold , this is normal .
If the problem occurs frequently when driving , replace the navigation unit .
300mm h x 1200 w x 75mm , 600mm h x 2400mm w x 150mm d .
When this happens , the software may not be recognized by the navigation unit , and could cause the navigation unit to revert to a previous model profile .
The navigation DVD and the navigation unit are correct for the vehicle , but earlier and possibly later versions of the navigation software may have been installed .
ensure you are using one of our official navigation DVDs .
Remove the navigation unit , and verify that the parts number printed on the navigation unit label is the correct one for the year / model vehicle you are working on .
Is the correct navigation unit installed based on the parts number ?
Replace the navigation unit with the correct unit for the year / model vehicle you are working on .
Reinstall the navigation unit .
Remove the navigation DVD .
Is the software version marked on the DVD label the correct one for the vehicle year / model you are working on ?
Obtain the correct version DVD and install it .
Wall mounted signage in 2 No . sizes
Does the navigation system boot-up with the Acura Globe Screen ?
The problem is resolved , troubleshooting is complete .
Navigation unit will not eject or accept the navigation DVD
Check No . 5 ( 10 A ) and No . 32 ( 10 A ) fuses in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Replace the blown fuse ( s ) , and recheck .
Eject the DVD from the navigation unit .
Does the navigation DVD eject ?
Reinsert the navigation DVD into the navigation unit .
Does the navigation unit accept the navigation DVD ?
No problems at this time , the system is normal .
the immobilisation and / or defeating of protective equipment and covers ,
300mm h x 1200mm w x 38mm d , 600mm h x 2400mm w x 75mm d .
Inspect for loose or poor connections at terminals No . 1 , No . 2 , and No . 4 of navigation unit connector C ( 8P ) .
Measure the voltage between navigation unit connector C ( 8P ) terminal No . 4 and body ground .
Repair open or high resistance in the BLK wire between navigation unit connector C ( 8P ) and body ground ( G605 ) .
Repair open in the WHT wire between navigation unit connector C ( 8P ) terminal No . 1 and the No . 5 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Start-up procedure and Diagnostic Menu
There are two ways to enter the diagnostic mode :
Connect the SCS connector to the navigation service connector located in the trunk .
Then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
The display will go directly to the diagnostic menu screen shown below .
When finished troubleshooting , ensure to remove the SCS connector .
Individual signage Spec Data :
Use the navigation display hard buttons as described below :
ensure the battery is in good condition , then press and hold the three buttons ( Menu , Map / Guide , and Cancel ) , and keep them pressed for approximately 5 seconds .
The display screen will go directly to the Select Diagnosis Items menu shown below .
After the display changes to the Select Diagnosis Items menu , select the item you want to check and the diagnostic will start .
To return to the previous screen , select Return .
Navi System ( Link )
Unit Check
Silver panels , colour Sunrise Silver metallic PPG 5M92767 .
GPS Information
Yaw Rate
Tire Calibrate
Functional Setup
Version
Factory diagnostic screen In Line Diag ' '
If the vehicle left the factory in the factory diagnostic mode , you will see this screen every time you turn on the ignition .
When a navigation control unit is powered up for the first time at the factory or after replacement with a new or remanufactured navigation unit , the factory diagnosis screen ( In Line Diag ) shows up .
Normally the factory does the steps necessary to verify proper operation and terminate the factory diagnostic .
Until the proper confirmation sequence is done , the screen will show up every time the vehicle is started .
Service text black 3M reflective vinyl
Follow the steps below to prevent the screen from showing up in the future :
Press and hold the buttons ( Menu + Map / Guide + Cancel ) for about 5 seconds ( the Select Diagnosis items screen appears ) .
Press and hold the Map / Guide button for 5 − 10 seconds ( A screen with a Complete button , appears ) .
Select Complete , then Return , and then turn the key off for 5 seconds .
Do not disconnect the battery during this period as the unit is saving the setting to the SRAM memory .
The In Line Diag should not appear again .
Restart the vehicle , and confirm normal operation by completing the TQI of the Navigation System Service Bulletin .
This diagnostic tests the cables connecting the navigation components .
Ensure that the ignition switch is in ON ( II ) .
EXTERIOR - INTERNAL SIGNAGE
When the diagnostic begins , you hear a bong sound .
The system is in a Detecting mode , and is waiting for all items in white to be tested .
This includes the navigation voice control ( TALK / BACK ) buttons , and microphone .
Press the navigation TALK button on the steering wheel , and in a normal voice , say testing .
The TALK indicator on the screen should turn green , and the voice level indicator should move to at least the 6th bar to pass .
Next , press the navigation BACK button .
The Back indicator should turn green .
If all of the communication lines connecting the system components , and the navigation TALK / BACK buttons / microphone check out OK ( all block diagram items green ) , then the OK indicator turns green .
If there is a problem with the system , the faulty system component item turns red , and the screen will show NG in red .
Use the troubleshooting index , and other diagnostic screens to help locate the problem .
Ceiling Mounted Signage
The indication on the screen may not change until you cycle the ignition switch .
After repairing the affected cable or system , repeat this diagnostic .
Green boxes and a green OK indicate that the communications lines ( cables ) are intact .
This diagnostic does not necessarily imply that the individual components are functioning properly .
For instance , the GPS antenna wire may be crushed , but still show as green .
A road test , or other diagnostic may be necessary to find the problem .
A green box and link to the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) does not mean that the unit is receiving traffic information .
Always verify that the client ' s account status is active , and compare to a known-good vehicle to ensure that there isn ' t local coverage problem .
Select Return to return to the Diagnosis Menu .
USA model
Single panels in 2 No . sizes
Canada model
The mic level indicator must reach the 6th bar or greater to pass the test .
If the XM link is red or flashing red , go to audio system symptom troubleshooting , or see XM ( HIP ) diagnostic screen .
Overview of display unit
The illumination cancel signal is provided by the gauge via B-CAN to the HVAC unit , then to the navigation unit via the U-ART bus .
The display unit communicates with the navigation unit over its own GA-Net bus . Information sent by the navigation unit to the display unit includes commands to control the LCD back light .
The security system protects the navigation display unit by daisy-chaining the security signal through it , and then passing the signal to the audio unit .
The illumination input from the gauge brightness control provides back lighting for the buttons surrounding the screen .
These screens allow you to troubleshoot the display unit .
Select the item you want to troubleshoot , and follow the diagnostic instructions .
900mm h x 1200mm w x 150mm
RGB color
Gray Tone
White Raster
Black Raster
Color Pattern
Monitor Adjustment
RGB Color
This screen verifies that the display unit is receiving the video ( R , G , B and Composite sync ) signals properly .
The three primary colors should all be shown without distortion .
The combination of all three should produce a central white section .
Multiple panels
If any of the colors are missing , troubleshoot for the color signal .
If the picture has lines in it or scrolls horizontally , or vertically , troubleshoot for a Composite sync problem .
This screen diagnoses problems with contrast .
You should be able to see the changes from bar to bar across the scale .
It is normal for the two bars on either side to appear the same .
This diagnostic screen checks for pixels that may be dead ( off ) .
The entire display must be white .
If there are dead pixels , replace the navigation unit .
This diagnostic screen checks for pixels that may be stuck on .
The entire display must be black .
Internal signage Spec Data :
If pixels are stuck on , replace the navigation unit .
The chart below shows the colors being used for the map and menu screens .
This is for factory use only .
To check the color signal use the RGB Color diagnostic found under the Monitor Check .
This allows you to center the navigation display .
Use the joystick to move the picture up / down or left / right .
It is unlikely that you will ever need to adjust the monitor position .
The Default button will reset the display position to factory specifications .
To start the test , select the item you want to check starts .
Display
the manipulation of hard and software .
Silver panels , colour Sunrise Silver Metallic PPG5M92767 .
Navi FT
PC Card Info
Hard Key
Smart Card
This diagnostic does additional checks on the communication bus between the control unit and the display .
In addition , the internal electronics functionality are confirmed .
When the connection is NG , first check for loose terminals at the navigation unit and the display unit connections .
Next check for an open or short in the communication line between the navigation unit and the display unit .
If you find the line has an open or short , replace the affected shielded harness .
If the ROM or RAM is NG , replace the display unit .
Service text black 3M reflective vinyl .
The version represents the software version in the display .
If the NG is indicated , check for loose audio unit connector .
If the XM link was displayed red , but the radio link was displayed green in the navigation system link , refer to audio system symptom troubleshooting .
This screen looks for problems with the navigation unit .
When you initiate this diagnosis , the navigation unit may delay up to a minute while the diagnosis runs .
Do not try to end this diagnostic by pressing OK or Mem clear before it finishes , otherwise the system may reboot .
If V-RAM or D-RAM is NG , then replace the navigation unit .
If GPS indicates NG ( ANT ) , then check the entire GPS antenna wire from the navigation unit to the antenna .
If the wire is crushed or damaged , try a known good antenna .
If this diagnostic reads OK , then order a new GPS antenna .
If the diagnostic still reads NG ( ANT ) , then replace the navigation unit .
DVD ROM represents the database version on the DVD .
You can find this information in either the Setup Screen Version , or in the Diagnostic Screen Version .
Serial No . should be the same as the serial number found on the underside of the navigation unit .
You need this number to obtain the security code from the Interactive Network ( iN ) system .
The Mem Clr is for factory use and should not be used unless instructed by the factory .
Selecting this will clear the client ' s settings , personal information , GPS orbital data , and anything else stored in memory .
PC Card Info .
There is no PC Card in the PC slot , and the screen should say , PC Card is not inserted ' ' .
Do not insert any card or object into the slot .
EXTERIOR - WALL SIGNAGE
If the factory provides a PC card and instructs you to insert a card , then the screen displays the Manufacturer , and Product Name as shown in the following screen .
This diagnostic tests the interface dial , and the buttons that surround it .
For this model , the interface dial and buttons do not use the GA-Net bus for communications .
To complete the test , touch each button on the vehicle ' s control panel , and move the interface dial to each indicated position .
As each function is tested , the corresponding button on the display should highlight .
To exit , push in and hold the selector knob .
You cannot use the onscreen return button to exit this function .
If the smart card is being used , you can check the card condition .
Use this screen to confirm that the navigation unit is properly receiving input signals .
Signals equal to ( 0 ) are OFF , and signals equal to ( 1 ) are ON .
WALL SIGNS
If the value on the display does not match the actual vehicle status , then check the wire carrying the signal .
VSP-Vehicle Speed Pulse from PCM ( Pin 6 of C-connector )
a ) OFF ( 0 ) when vehicle is not moving
b ) ON ( 1 ) when vehicle is moving
The VSP comes from the PCM as a dedicated signal .
Internally , the navigation unit compares the actual VP on the map against street data to adjust the pulse to speed scaling factor .
As this scaling factor becomes more accurate , the Level gradually increases from 0 to 10 ( see the Tire Calibrate diagnostic screen ) .
BACK-Reverse indication from taillight relay ( Pin 5 of C-connector )
a ) OFF ( 0 ) when the shift lever is in any position other than reverse
b ) ON ( 1 ) when the shift lever is in reverse
Wall signage in three sizes based on our brand mark 1650mm , 1350mm and 1050mm .
The Back signal is used by the navigation unit to allow the map screen to show the VP moving backwards when in reverse .
This signal is needed because the Speed Pulse has no direction indication .
ILL CANCEL
This function is not applied to this model .
ILL-Illumination Indication ( Pin 5 of navigation unit A-connector )
a ) OFF ( 0 ) when parking lights , or headlights are off
b ) ON ( 1 ) when parking lights , or headlights are on
The navigation uses the signal to determine whether to put the navigation screen into the Day or Night brightness mode .
( Setup screen 1 )
DVD Lid-senses if the DVD door is open
Sized 2475 x 2062 x 205mm , 2025 x 1687 x 168mm and 1575 x 1372 x 131mm .
a ) ( Close ) when the door is closed
b ) ( Open ) when the door is open
The navigation unit has a micro switch to detect this .
If open is indicated when the door is closed , replace the navigation unit .
This screen shows the current status of GPS reception .
The circular diagram shows the current location of the GPS satellites ( yellow numbers ) as they would appear in the sky .
The outer circle represents the horizon ( 0 degrees elevation ) .
The middle and inner circles represents 30 and 60 degrees respectively .
The very center of the diagram ( 90 degrees elevation ) is directly overhead .
Nearby obstructions , like tall buildings will block satellites in that direction .
Sized 2475 x 2062 x 205mm , 2025 x 1687 168mm and 1575 x 1372 x 131mm .
That is why it is necessary to be in an open area to effectively troubleshoot GPS reception issues .
The satellite numbers shown on the diagram correspond to the PRN number in the GPS Details screen .
There are always at least 24 active GPS satellites in orbit .
Because satellites fail , and have to be removed from service , spares are always parked in orbit , ready to be activated .
This is why the PRN ( satellite ID number ) can be greater than 24 .
To use this screen for troubleshooting , the vehicle should be outside away from buildings , tall trees , and high-tension wires for at least 10 minutes with the engine running .
The Number of Satellites box shows the number of acquired satellites ( maximum of 12 ) .
It should contain four or more icons .
If not troubleshoot for GPS icon is white or not shown .
The Current Position shows latitude , longitude , and elevation ( in feet ) .
EXTERIOR - ROOF SIGNAGE
If there are less than four satellites , the elevation can be grossly inaccurate .
The Date / Time field shows the current date , and also GMI time .
Pressing the map guide button displays the satellite number on each circle .
GPS Detail
By pressing and holding the MENU button for 10 seconds , a GPS Detail screen appears .
This screen displays real time incoming satellite positional data when the vehicle is outside in the open .
The information shown on this screen is for factory use .
The box TS / AS and H Dop / V Dop is for factory use .
The Speed and Direction information is updated in real time when driving .
The Date / Time Information is the same as in Setup screen 2 Adjust Time Zone / Clock .
Roof signage double or single faced , also single sided wall mounted versions size 2400 x 2400mm & 3600mm depth 300mm .
If the 3D icon is shown above the yellow dots , this implies that at least four satellites are available for map positioning , and the GPS indicator on the map screen will be green .
See the Global Positioning System detailed explanation in the System Description .
If the row of data in the table below begins with a yellow dot , the AZI and EL fields can be used to locate each satellite on the circular GPS diagram ( see prior screen ) .
The data shown in the GPS Detail screen is an example only .
The table of values shown on the screen below has the following columns :
Column
Problem indication
Active
Active satellites ( Yellow Dot )
If 3D or 2D is missing when the vehicle is parked outside , do the GPS icon is white or not shown troubleshooting .
The operating staff may rectify faults if the necessary measures are not included in the above mentioned restrictions , and providing the operating system has the capability to rectify faults .
Roof Signage Spec Data :
The satellite ID number
The status :
0 = cannot view or searching , 2 = acquiring
If all 0 , then , do the GPS icon is white or not shown troubleshooting .
Azimuth , the angle ( 0 − 360 ) clockwise from north
Elevation from the horizon ( 90 deg is overhead )
Silver panels colour Sunrise Silver metallic PPG 5M92767 .
Healthy signal is 49-52 , no signal :
1 / 2 or 2 / 2 ▿
Shows view of all satellites in two screen views 1 / 2 or 2 / 2
This diagnostic checks the yaw rate sensor in the control unit .
This device detects when the vehicle turns , and repositions the vehicle position icon on the map screen .
For more detailed information , see the yaw rate sensor theory of operation under System Description .
Sensor indicates the voltage output from the yaw rate sensor .
It should indicate about 2,500 volts when stopped .
Offset is the reference voltage or standard within the yaw rate sensor .
Wordmark External acrylic / polycarbonate to match PMS200 routed out and pushed through cabinet illuminated with fluorescent lamps .
It also should indicate about 2,500 volts when stopped .
A sensor output voltage LOWER than the Offset voltage indicates that the vehicle is turning to the right .
A sensor output voltage HIGHER than the Offset voltage indicates that the vehicle is turning to the left .
The yaw rate offset , and sensor should both indicate about 2,500 volts when stopped .
If either reads zero , or 5,000 volts , replace the navigation unit .
The yaw rate offset and sensor should be within + / − 0,01 V of each other when stopped .
The sensor value should change relative to the offset as the car is turned while driving .
If not , replace the navigation unit .
Car stopped
EXTERIOR - WALL MOUNTED SIGNAGE WITH WORD MARK
Abnormal
2,516 − 2,536 V
Car turning
2,678 V ( left turn )
2,478 V ( right turn )
2,623 V ( no change on turns )
Sensitivity study represents the status of the internal tuning function .
At initialization , this value starts at 6 and increases to 10 as the internal correction values become more accurate .
Wall mounted signage , size 3600 x 2400 x 206mm .
The settings CCW Cal Factor , CW Cal Factor , and Set are for factory use only .
THIS SHOULD NEVER BE ADJUSTED .
For detailed analysis of the yaw rate select tuning .
Yaw Rate Tuning
This diagnostic allows you to graphically display problems with the yaw rate sensor .
The ANG-Disp value accumulates any differences between the offset , and sensor voltages ( see Yaw Rate diagnostic ) .
When the sensor is functioning normally , the random changes in these two voltages generally cancels out , so the value is 0 . However if one voltage is consistently higher than the other , then the ANG-Disp value accumulates the constant change .
The Reset button temporarily clears the angular accumulation ( ANG-Disp ) , and clears the display dots .
Do not touch the CCW , CW , or Set buttons .
These are used for factory setup only .
Wall Mounted Signage Spec Data :
Two tests are explained below .
For gross problems with the sensor , the stationary test usually confirms whether the sensor is defective .
For yaw rate issues related to driving , do the road test described below .
Stationary test :
If the VP icon spins in place and the ANG-Disp value slowly increases or decreases , the yaw rate sensor is defective .
Replace the navigation control unit .
Road test :
Drive the vehicle on a very straight road .
Enter the diagnostic mode , select Yaw rate , and touch the Tuning button .
While driving down a straight road , the white dots should trace a straight line across the screen .
Silver panels Sunrise Silver metallic PPG 5M92767 .
However , if you are driving on a straight road , and you notice the dots constantly dropping down or heading up as you drive , the navigation control unit ' s yaw sensor is defective .
You can touch Reset to clear ANG-Disp , and dotted lines .
If either test above fails , please enter Yaw rate sensor defective ' ' for the problem description , on the Navigation core return form .
As the vehicle moves , the navigation system receives speed pulses from the PCM .
These pulses are converted using a conversion factor to a mph speed that moves the vehicle position ( VP ) on the map .
The navigation system has an internal tuning function that generates and refines this factor based on actual driving .
The Study indicates the status of the tuning .
At navigation initialization , it begins at 0 , and increases to 10 as the navigation system is used .
The Auto Tuning is factory set to ON , and should remain on .
The Study indicates the tuning status .
EXTERIOR - ROOF MOUNTED WORD MARK
If it is less than 10 , the unit is still calibrating .
The Tire-Cal . Tuning and Set should not be used .
It is for factory use only .
Select the item you want to check .
Log Data
GPS Send Time
Demo Mode
Save Users Data
This screen graphically displays the sun ' s position as determined by GPS .
Overall sizes of the above signage would be to suit the building size .
The HVAC system uses the navigation systems sun ' s angle , along with the sunlight sensor to control the driver / passenger A / C air flow .
The heat that the climate control unit removes varies , depending on the angle of the sun entering the vehicle .
This screen is for factory use only , and should not be adjusted .
The screen shows a circular diagram of the sky oriented in the direction that the vehicle is pointing .
During daylight hours a red dot is shown , representing the direction and elevation of the sun .
The middle circle is 30 degrees , the center circle is 60 degrees , and the very center is directly overhead ( 90 degrees ) .
The manual tuning button should always be OFF .
The Angle is the angle that the sun ( shown with red dot ) is above the horizon .
The vehicle value represents the angle , clockwise from North , to the direction that the vehicle position ( VP ) icon is pointing ( always points straight up ) .
The direction value is the angle , measured clockwise from the VP ( straight up ) to the suns position .
To be assessed on site .
The reliability ranges from 1 to 3 , and represents the accuracy of the Vehicle Position relative to the sun .
This screen allows the factory to select log data to troubleshoot navigation system issues .
Normally there is no card in the PC Card Slot , and the PC slot door should always be closed .
The screen should appear as shown .
However , if the factory provides a PC card and instructs you to insert it into the card slot ( label side up ) .
If instructed by the factory , select Gyro .
Sensor Logs ON .
Follow the factory procedure for gathering test data , and properly ending the test .
Send GPS Time
This screen is for factory use only .
Maintenance and Repair Staff
Individually formed letters in External acrylic / polycarbonate to match PMS200 illuminated with red LEDs .
It allows adjustment of the GPS time .
This display updates in real time .
GPS Time is the time as received from the GPS satellites .
It is in Greenwich Mean Time ( GMT ) .
Date , Hour , Minute , and Set should not be used .
This screen is for factory use only , and should always be set to OFF .
Occasionally the DEMO setting is turned ON when vehicles are being used at Auto Shows or similar events .
Turning this feature on , allows the navigation system to automatically follow a route to a destination when the vehicle is stationary .
The Speed changes the speed of the demo mode .
This diagnostic allows you to independently test the microphone and the NAVI TALK and BACK buttons .
Tubular Steel Frame to be painted to match Charcoal Grey RAL 7021 .
They are used to activate the voice control system .
The microphone is located near the map light in the roof console .
It is directional , and works best with the voice coming from the drivers seat .
Press the TALK button on the steering wheel , and in a normal voice say testing .
The TALK indicator on the screen should momentarily turn green , and the text Now Recording . . . should appear in yellow .
If the TALK indicator on the screen does not briefly turn green , then check the wiring from the steering wheel TALK button to the navigation unit .
If there is no Mic Level movement when you speak , then you should check the wires running from the microphone in the roof console to the HFL unit and the navigation unit .
If the wires are OK , the microphone must be faulty ; replace the roof console .
Press the BACK button on the steering wheel .
This should cause the BACK indicator on the screen to momentarily turn green .
700mm approx
If it does not briefly turn to green , then check the wiring from the steering wheel BACK button to the navigation unit .
This screen displays the current version information for the navigation system software .
In addition , this screen allows the loading of updated software if requested by the factory , or instructed by a Service Bulletin .
Software may be loaded from a CD or a PC card .
Program Flash :
Displays the version of the navi software in memory .
Program Disc :
If displayed , this value represents the version of the navi software on the navi DVD .
The last two letters of the Program Flash or DVD fields indicate which DVD is installed in the unit .
The letters KA imply that a United States DVD is installed .
EXTERIOR - COMMERCIAL SIGNAGE
If the letters are KC , then a Canada DVD is installed .
( See coverage discussion below . )
IPL , APL , DBOOT , and System uCom , are all for factory use .
For this model , the field should begin with STX .
Download :
Do not touch , unless instructed by the factory .
There are two navigation DVDs produced for this model .
The white DVD labeled United States is for the US market and contains maps for the contiguous 48 US states , and some southern portions of Canada .
Clients wanting additional northern coverage in Canada , can purchase a Canada DVD by contacting the DVD fulfillment desk .
The gray DVD labeled Canada , is for the Canada market , and contains maps for all of Canada , plus some of the northern US states .
Commercial Pylon ( 6000 x 2100mm , 4800 x 1800mm , 3800 x 1800mm ) .
If clients with this DVD require full US coverage ( including states like Florida and Texas ) , they may purchase a United States DVD by contacting the DVD fulfillment desk .
These screens allow troubleshooting of XM or HIP ( AcuraLink ) problems .
XM ( HIP ) System Link
This diagnostic tests the cables connecting the XM ( HIP ) components .
Only select DATA RESET when instructed .
Selecting DATA RESET will clear the AcuraLink registration , and the AcuraLink service will reset to the factory default .
If the vehicle was already registered for the AcuraLink service , it will have to be reactivated by calling Acura Client Services before all features will be available .
The reactivation will cause the Feature Guide to start over at the first message , which will result in the client getting repeated messages .
Telematics Self-Diagnosis
Wall mounted monument sign , ( 2500 x 1630mm ) .
This screen used to do self-diagnosis for the XM ( HIP ) .
DTC Log Data
You can check the DTC log data in this screen .
When DTC B2200-B2249 is displayed .
It is in engineering mode and is not for trouble diagnosis .
Save Users Memory
When replacing the navigation unit , this function allows the dealer to transfer the client ' s personal data to the new navigation unit
This is similar to saving and entering the client ' s audio presets when replacing an audio core .
The transferred information includes their Setup settings , and personal addresses .
The dealer inserts a PC card ( like the PC card in the Polox system ) , and then selects the Save users Memory function .
Wall mounted Signage panel sizes in 2 No . options 900 mm h x 1200mm w 75mm d & 450mm h x 600mm w x 38mm d .
The two functions in this diagnostic screen are Export and Import saves the client ' s data to the PC card , and Import moves the PC card files to the new core .
See the FAQs below for information regarding PC cards , and the use of this function .
EXPORT
Select this button to move the client ' s data from the original navigation unit to the PC card .
Select YES on the Export User Data Confirmation screen .
The process takes only a couple of seconds .
The system stores two small files on the card .
IMPORT
After installing the client ' s original DVD in the new core , allow the system to boot up .
Insert the PC card in the new core and enter the navigation diagnostic mode .
Commercial Signage Spec Data :
Select YES on the Import Confirmation screen .
Import moves the two files stored by the Export process from the PC card to the new navigation unit .
When the transfer is finished ( a few seconds ) the system will automatically reboot .
After the system reboots , remove the PC card from the PC slot .
If the Import button is grayed out , follow the troubleshooting in the FAQs below .
The client ' s files can only be transferred to a new core if the Model and the Program Flash shown on the Version screen are the same .
These files cannot be transferred from TSX to MDX , or from a MDX with version 1,07 . 00 to a MDX with version 1,32 . 00 .
PC Card FAQs
Question
Answer
Silver panels , Sunrise Silver metallic PPG 5M92767 .
Where do we buy the flash memory or adaptors , and what do we ask for ?
You needs a PCMCIA type II adaptor and a flash memory chip ( see below for memory chip types ) .
They can be purchased at a computer , or office supply store .
The card will have the same size and shape as the PC card in the Polox system .
Adaptors that accept multiple flash types are not recommended .
What memory flash chips will work with what adaptors ?
The flash memory devices that have been tested include Compact Flash ( CF ) , and ATA style ( like the card in the Polox system ) .
Other card types and flash memory chips may work , but have not been tested .
What capacity card do I need for this function ?
A memory chip with capacity of 64 MB to 2 GB will work .
Service text external black / white acrylic routed out and pushed through cabinet illuminated with fluorescent lamps .
The two files moved to the card during export are less than a Megabyte in size .
An adaptor and flash memory can be obtained for less than 50 dollars .
Should the dealer have a dedicated card for the Export and Import navigation function ?
Yes , treat the card as a dedicated special tool that should be used anytime a ' 07 or later vehicle needs the navi personal files transferred to a new FT core .
What device can I use to maintain the card , and delete files ?
Any computer store sells USB style PC card readers that accept the card , and allow you to perform file maintenance on your card .
Most laptops will also accept the card .
Can we move the client ' s data to different models ( like moving TSX navi data to a MDX ) ?
No , the files are model specific and will only load into a navi FT with the same part number .
Can we move the client ' s data to the same vehicle with a different software version ?
Maintenance and repairs - particularly in the hydraulic , pneumatic , mechanic , electric and programming fields - may only be undertaken by staff possessing the necessary qualifications .
Poles and plinth Charcoal Grey RAL 7021 .
( Like moving version 4,51 )
The client ' s files can only be transferred to a new core , if the Model and the Program Flash shown on the Version screen are the same .
Files cannot be transferred from TSX to MDX ( different model code ) , or ' 07 MDX to ' 09 MDX ( different versions )
The Export button is grayed out .
Why ?
A PC card with its media memory chip is not inserted properly .
Check the card ' s edge connector , and the pins inside the navigation unit ( with a flashlight ) for damage
The Import button is grayed out .
Why is this ?
A PC card with it ' s media memory chip is not inserted
WALL MOUNTED MONUMENT SIGN
The model code of the files stored during export do not match the model code of the new navi FT
The version of the files from the original navi FT are not the same as the version in the new FT
Will other files on the card like images or music files prevent the Export / Import function from working ?
No , the system simply adds two small files that are recognized by the new core when performing the Import function .
However , if the card is full , the Export function won ' t work correctly .
Do I have to delete the files on the card after each transfer of the client ' s data ?
After the transfer of client data to the new core , the files remain on the card .
Since this is confidential information , we recommend that you delete these files after each use .
Please note that each time you export navi files of the same model and version , the files are overwritten .
If you do not delete the files after use , over time the card will accumulate two files for each version of the 5 or so Acura navi models .
COMMERCIAL PYLON
What format should be used if the card needs reformatting ?
It is unlikely that the card will ever need formatting , however the FAT file system should be used
I can ' t enter the navi diagnostic mode to do the Export / Import function .
How can I transfer the client ' s data ?
Some internal navi FT failures may make it impossible to use the Export / Import function .
Why won ' t the Export or Import functions work ?
What do I check as part of troubleshooting ?
The card may not be fully inserted into the slot .
Eject the card , and inspect for warping or damage to the edge connector .
Never use excessive force to insert a card .
COMMERCIAL [ ss3 ]
This can result in damage to the pins in the rear of the slot .
The card may not contain files that are recognized by the new core .
Navigation date can only be transferred between cores with the same Model code , and with the same navigation Program flash version .
The flash memory chip type may not be accepted by the system .
Only Compact Flash , and ATA cards have been tested .
The card ' s PCMCIA adaptor may be preventing a known good card from being recognize .
Avoid multi slot type PCMCIA adaptors that accept several different flash memory types
The card may be full and as a result the files are stored , but without any data .
Export and import appear to function , but move nothing .
Delete unused files from the card .
Wall mounted Signage panel sizes in 2 No . options 900 mm h x 1200mm w
There may not be any files on the card .
If the card has a write protection switch , ensure it is turned off before attempting to use the Export function .
Although flash memory chips are reliable , occasionally they develop bad sectors or other formatting errors that prevents them from accepting files .
The card should be reformatted using the FAT format .
The card may have been formatted using the format NTFS .
Only the FAT format is accepted by the system .
Hard Disc Drive ( HDD ) cards may not work properly in the system and can overheat or quit functioning , particularly in a hot vehicle .
They are not recommended .
Before doing the import function , ensure that the client ' s original DVD is loaded into the new core and working properly .
Are there any error messages to tell me what is wrong ?
75mm d & 450mm h x 600mm w x 38mm d .
There are no error message associated with the Import / Export feature .
Follow the troubleshooting steps above .
Error Message Table
Screen Error Message
Navigation system is unable to acquire a proper GPS signal .
ensure there is nothing on the dashboard blocking the GPS antenna .
If not , move the vehicle to an open space away from tall buildings , trees , etc .
Window tinting and after-market devices can affect the GPS reception .
Navigation unit door is open or No DVD disc installed .
Please check system .
EXTERIOR - COMMERCIAL MONUMENT SIGNAGE
ensure the navigation DVD is the correct color and is not scratched or damaged .
ensure it is installed with the label side up and the navigation unit door is snapped fully closed .
No DVD disc , please check system .
Check that the navigation DVD is installed with the label side up .
Display temp is too high .
System will shut down until display cools down .
This message will appear briefly when the display temperature is too high , and then the display will turn off until the temperature cools down .
The system will turn back on when the display cools down .
Outside temperature is low , system will take a while to start up .
The temperature is below − 22 F ( − 30 C ) and the navigation unit has difficulties reading the DVD .
2400 x 2400 x 300mm .
The system will start up when the temperate warms up .
DVD disc reading error ( unformatted ) , please consult your dealer .
Check the DVD for the correct color and software version .
Also check for deep scratches or other damage .
However , you should have the system checked by your dealer as soon as possible .
The system cannot read other mapping databases or video DVDs .
If the problem persists , see your dealer .
Route has not been completed .
Please try again from a different location .
Routing to or from a place ( new area ) that is not in the database .
Commercial :
Try planning a different route to or from a different location that is clearly displayed on the map ( map matched ) .
No alternate route found .
Original route will be guided .
No alternate route method was found .
The original route method will be used .
This destination cannot be found in database .
The destination was not found in the database .
Try another destination nearby , or select the destination with the joystick .
Navigation system stays on the GPS initialization screen
GPS antenna / cable is disconnected or damaged
Monument Signage Spec Data :
Aftermarket metallic window tint
The wrong color DVD is installed
The DVD is damaged or dirty
Harness / fuses / switches
GPS antenna / cable
PCM ( speed and fuel pulses )
System always comes up in in-line diagnostic mode
See factory Diagnostic screen In-Line Diag
Wrong color DVD
Navigation frequently asks for anti-theft code and / or needs GPS initialization
In this case the personnel , as previously described in these safety instructions , are to be trained regarding safety .
Service text external black / white acrylic routed out and pushed through cabinet illuminated type illuminated with fluorescent lamps .
Loss of voltage or poor ground ( G605 )
Aftermarket accessories connected to the system
Vehicle icon wanders across the map when driving ( does not follow a displayed road ) or map or vehicle ICON spins
PCM ( speed signal )
Display unit
Client account status
Area outage
Area not covered
Traffic icons are turned OFF
AcuraLink ( XM receiver )
Poles and plinth Charcoal Grey RAL7021 .
Low or weak battery
Display brightness set to High in day or night mode
Gauge control module ( CAN )
Volume or voice feedback setting ( see Owner ' s manual )
Audio unit / amplifier
Microphone harness / switches HandsFreeLink control unit
Wrong color DVD installed
Wrong navigation unit ( model code )
Today ' s Destinations button is dim and not selectable in the Enter destination by screen ( grayed-out )
The client has not entered a group of locations for Today ' s Destinations .
GENERAL SIZES
The button is only selectable if the client is using this function .
See Owner ' s Manual
Some set-up and information functions of the navigation system are grayed-out and do not work
Client did not select OK from Disclaimer screen .
Refer to System Function Diagram .
Previous Destinations button is dim and not selectable in the Enter destination by screen ( grayed-out )
The vehicle may be new , or the client deleted the destination .
Enter a destination , and allow the system to route to it .
After the trip , the Previous Destinations button will be selectable .
Address cannot be found or system gives poor routing
COMMERCIAL
Verify proper operation and system limitations using the owner ' s manual
See Answering client question Navigation coverage in general troubleshooting
Database limitations ( address not in database )
Software for the latest up-dates
Scratched or damaged DVD
No backup signal
Wrong disc installed in navigation unit
Harness
The map will not display the Southern portion of the U . S . or the Northern parts of Canada
North American coverage is different for USA / Canada markets .
EXTERIOR - USED CAR SIGNAGE
See the Version Diagnostic Screen for details on coverage differences .
The wrong colored DVD or version is installed
Damaged DVD
Navigation system will not go beyond the disclaimer screen and displays the OK button
The navigation anti-theft code card is lost or missing
See anti-theft feature
The vehicle icon lags behind when the vehicle turns
See self-inertial navigation limitations
Navigation screen is darker than normal or takes time to brighten when it is cold
See LCD unit limitations
Used Car Pylon ( 6000 x 2100mm ,
The navigation clock is off by 1 to 3 hours after replacing the navigation unit
See service precautions
Perform map matching
Check and adjust the clock settings
A new navigation DVD is needed
See obtaining a navigation DVD
Time is not correct
Reset Time Adjustment in set-up
The DVD is scratched or dirty
See DVD Handing and Cleaning
4800 x 1800mm , 3800 x 1800mm ) .
The wrong DVD was installed and now the system does not function properly
See Precaution client Sneak Previews
Install the correct version DVD
A POI cannot be found
See How to answer client questions about navigation coverage
A specific city cannot be found
An In Line Diagnosis screen appears every time vehicle is started
See factory diagnostic screen In Line Diag
Symptom troubleshooting
Also see the symptom The wrong DVD was installed and now the system does not function properly ' '
Used Car Signage Spec Data :
SCS Service Connector
Connect the SCS service connector ( A ) to the navigation service connector ( B ) located behind the navigation unit .
Check that the diagnosis menu for the picture diagnosis starts up , and then changes to the system link menu .
If the display fails to display the system link screen , refer to no picture is displayed .
Remove the display unit .
Disconnect the GPS antenna connector ( A ) , and remove the bolt ( B ) .
Remove the GPS antenna .
Install the antenna in the reverse order of removal .
Remove the harness cover ( A ) .
Used Car :
Disconnect the interface dial connecter ( A ) , then remove the interface dial ( B ) .
If the hard buttons do not work , but the jog dial does , recheck the interface dial connector connection .
Install the dial in reverse order of removal .
Remove the dashboard center upper panel .
Remove the two screws ( A ) and bolt ( B ) , then remove the display unit .
Disconnect the navigation display connector ( D ) .
Be careful not to drop the forward bolt behind the dashboard .
Before you replace the navigation unit , back-up the client data using system diagnostic mode save users memory under the functional set up .
If the navigation unit is replaced or disconnected , a Map Matching must be done .
Eject the DVD from the original navigation unit .
EXTERIOR - RAPID SERVICE BANNERS
To avoid scratching or damaging the DVD , temporarily place the DVD in a jewel case .
If the DVD will not eject , refer to symptom troubleshooting Navigation unit will not eject or accept the navigation DVD .
Remove the Driver ' s seat .
Remove the two mounting nuts ( A ) from the navigation unit ( B ) .
Remove the cover , then disconnect the navigation unit connectors ( D ) .
Remove the bolts , and the brackets ( A ) .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , then reinstall the client ' s original DVD , verifying that the DVD is free of scratches or smudges .
The Logo Globe Screen appears every time the vehicle is started
Apply any prescribed patches to the new navigation unit .
Simply transferring the DVD from the original navigation unit to the new navigation unit does not assure the correct software for the vehicle will be loaded into the new navigation unit .
This must be followed by instruction in the station operating system .
2400 x 800mm .
Doing the DVD transfer without doing software patches may cause the new navigation unit to appear to be malfunctioning .
Enter the new navigation anti-theft code .
Park the vehicle outside , and do the GPS initialization .
Give the new navigation anti-theft code to the client .
Push the open button ( A ) of the navigation unit located under the driver ' s seat .
Press the EJECT button ( B ) .
Remove the DVD-ROM .
Insert the new DVD-ROM with the white label facing up .
Close the front cover .
Do not turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) ; watch the navigation screen until the data is downloaded to the navigation unit .
Text height 240 & 120mm .
Do the Map Matching .
After servicing , the front cover and PC card slot door must be closed .
If you start up the navigation system with the front cover or PC card slot door open , the display will indicate an error message .
Talk button pressed
Back button pressed
If the resistance is not as specified , replace the voice control switch .
If the diode test is not as specified , replace the voice control switch .
Remove the rear license trim and tailgate lower trim panel .
Disconnect the connector ( A ) , then remove the screws and the rearview camera ( B ) .
Microphone Input / Output Short to Power / Open
Rapid service banners formed in pressed aluminium with 25mm returns to all edges ,
If you are troubleshooting multiple DTCs , be sure to follow the instructions in B-CAN system diagnosis test mode A .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , and then back to ON ( II ) .
Remove the roof console and the console rear trim .
Disconnect the 20P connector from the roof console and the 28P connector from the HandsFreeLink control unit .
Measure the voltage between HandsFreeLink control unit the 28P connector terminal No . 13 and body ground .
Replace the faulty harness between the HandsFreeLink control unit and the roof console .
Check for continuity between HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector terminal No . 13 and roof console 20P connector terminal No . 8 .
Substitute a known-good HandsFreeLink control unit , then recheck .
If the symptom goes away , replace the original HandsFreeLink control unit .
Microphone Input / Output Short to Ground / Open
Mount the pink cover .
Remove the roof console and the glove box .
Check for continuity between body ground and the terminals No . 13 and No . 14 of the HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector individually , then between terminals No . 12 and No . 13 .
Replace the faulty harness between the HandsFreeLinks control unit and the roof console .
Check for continuity between the terminals shown of the HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector and the roof console 20P connector .
Check if the vehicle is equipped with a navigation system .
Is the vehicle navigation equipped ?
Substitute a known-good HFL control unit and recheck .
Disconnect the 14P connector from the navigation unit .
Replace the faulty harness between the HandsFreeLink control unit and the navigation unit .
Mount the large red cover .
Check for continuity between the terminals shown of the HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector and the navigation unit connector B ( 14P ) .
If the symptom goes away , replace the original HandsFreeLink control unit .
If the symptom does not go away , replace the faulty navigation unit .
HFL Switch ( HFL TALK / HFL BACK Buttons ) Circuit Open / Short
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , then start the vehicle and turn the steering wheel back and forth several times .
Do the HFL switch test .
Replace the cable reel subharness .
Disconnect the 28P connector from the HandsFreeLink control unit .
Disconnect the 20P connector from the cable reel subharness .
Check for voltage on the cable reel subharness 20P connector terminal No . 8 .
Red ref PMS200 .
Repair a short to power on BLU wire .
Check for continuity between the HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector terminal No . 2 and cable reel subharness 20P connector terminal No . 8 .
Repair open in the BLU wire between the switch , cable reel , and HandsFreeLink control unit .
Check for continuity between the cable reel subharness 20P connector terminal No . 9 and the audio unit connector B ( 32P ) terminal No . 3 .
Check for loose or poor connections at the audio unit , HandsFreeLink control unit , and HFL switch .
If the connections are OK , substitute a known-good HandsFreeLink control unit .
If the problem is gone , replace the original control unit .
Repair open in the wire between the switch , cable reel , and the audio unit .
HFL Switch ( HFL TALK / HFL BACK Buttons ) Circuit Short
Graphics in applied white vinyl .
Check for continuity between HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector terminal No . 2 and body ground .
Replace the HandsFreeLink control unit .
Incorrect Configuration ( VEHINFO Frame )
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , then turn it to ON ( II ) and wait 6 seconds or more .
Check for DTC with the Polox system .
Gauge control module is faulty , replace the gauge control module .
VEHINFO frame is OK at this time .
Check for poor connections or loose terminals at the HandsFreeLink control unit .
HandsFreeLink Control Unit Lost Communication with Gauge Control Module ( VEHINFO Frame )
If you are troubleshooting multiple DTCs , be sure to follow the instructions in B-CAN System Diagnosis Test Mode A .
Destroy the red dashboard .
Is DTC B1011 , B1032 , B1060 , B1061 , B1205 , B1206 , B1207 , B1906 , B1956 , B2157 , B2160 indicated ?
HandsFreeLink control unit is faulty , replace the HandsFreeLink control unit .
Select the UNIT INFORMATION MENU from the Polox system , and do the CONNECTED UNIT .
Check the AVAILABLE / NOT AVAILABLE information of the gauge control module in the CONNECTED UNIT .
Is the information indicator NOT AVAILABLE ?
Disconnect the gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) .
Measure the voltage between body ground and gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminal No . 7 .
If the fuse are good , repair open in the wire between the No . 21 fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and the gauge control module .
Disconnect the gauge control module connector B ( 24P ) .
Check for continuity between body ground and gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminal No . 2 and gauge control module connector B ( 24P ) terminal No . 13 individually .
REFERENCE DOCUMENTS :
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between body ground and the gauge control module .
Disconnect the power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) .
Check for continuity between the power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) terminal No . 7 and gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminal No . 5 .
Repair open in the wire between power tailgate control unit and the gauge control module .
HandsFreeLink Control Unit Internal Error
Replace the HandsFreeLink control unit .
Without Rear Entertainment
Open the center console .
Carefully pull out the auxiliary jack assembly ( A ) , then disconnect the 6D connector ( B ) .
New European Design – Standards Manual .
The rear entertainment system is composed of a special DVD player unit built into the audio unit , a rear controller , and screen wireless headphones , wireless remote control , and auxiliary jack assembly .
System Components
Provides rear system power
Provides control for the rear functions
Allows the rear display to show information about the rear system status
Provides a method to stop the rear passenger ' s from having control of the rear system
Built into the DVD player
Rear Screen
Has a flip down 9 ' ' display
Displays information on the LCD
Bolt Feed Axis .
Machine Condition
Contract Concept and Engineering Drawings and Specifications set out in Sign Contractors and NSC Agreement .
Display does not work when pushed beyond the detent
Provides output for infrared ( IR ) headphones
Wireless Headphone
Has automatic ON / OFF control
Has volume control
Works only in the second and third row seats , not outside the vehicle or in the front seats
Wireless Remote Control
Allows remote operation of the audio functions .
Auxiliary Jack Assembly
Allows input from standard video game and video equipment using RCA connectors
Contribution Policy Document .
Provides three headphone connectors and separate volume controls
Audio Remote Switch
Allows operation of the audio functions from the steering wheel .
Voice Control Switch
Allows operation of the audio functions through the navigation system .
Navigation Display
Operating Method
Refer to the Owner ' s Manual for full operation details .
Turn the rear entertainment system ON .
After the main power switch VOL PUSH PWR ( A ) is turned ON , push REAR PWR switch ( B ) to turn the rear system ON .
President letter dated 17 January 2003 .
To turn the rear system OFF , push REAR PWR , and to turn the whole system OFF , push VOL PUSH PWR .
Using the select button .
Front source button , indicator light ON :
control of front source from audio unit .
Rear source button , indicator light ON :
control of rear source from audio unit .
The rear source will automatically revert back to front source after 10 seconds if no operation is done .
Rear Control Enable / Disable .
By pushing the REAR CTRL OFF button the LED indicator will be ON and the rear seat passenger ' s will not be able to control the system from the remote .
The rear display will show rear control OFF .
PROGRAM MANDATES :
Press button again to enable .
Viewing the display .
The display ( A ) ( built into the climate control unit ) indicates the status of the front and rear systems .
Rear speaker automatic OFF Function .
By turning the rear speaker OFF you can reduce the interference between the front source and the rear source ( Headphone ) .
The speaker will be turned ON / OFF automatically when the front and rear have different sources selected .
When the rear speaker is in the OFF mode , the LCD display on the audio unit displays the rear speaker icon shown .
Remote control switch use and function .
With Rear Power ON and rear control enabled , the rear passengers can control the functions with the remote , except volume .
Rear passenger can control the functions , unless the rear control has been turned off by the front user .
The following are a list of application rules that are mandated and under no circumstances are to be compromised .
Rear Controller and Screen Connector for Inputs and Outputs
When replacing a rear controller and screen connector , match the wires to the cavities listed in the following table .
REAR CONTROLLER AND SCREEN CONNECTOR A ( 24P )
Connect to
Rear controller and screen ( + B )
Audio unit ( RR BUS + )
Audio unit ( RR NTSC GND )
Audio unit ( RES AUDIO OUT GND )
Audio unit ( RES AUDIO OUT SH )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( HP R / L OUT GND )
These are to be read in conjunction with the Core Application Guidelines in the following section .
Auxiliary jack assembly ( HP R / L OUT SH )
Audio unit ( SCTY4 )
Lights-on signal
Audio unit ( RR BUS SH )
Audio unit ( RR BUS − )
Audio unit ( RR NTCS )
Audio unit ( RR NTSC SH )
Audio unit ( RES AUDIO OUT L )
Audio unit ( RES AUDIO OUT R )
Auxiliary jack assembly ( HP R OUT )
No design , engineering , material ; colour or typography variances are allowed .
Auxiliary jack assembly ( HP L OUT )
Navigation ( SCTY3 )
REAR CONTROLLER AND SCREEN CONNECTOR B ( 2P )
Audio unit ( DIG AUDIO SIG )
Audio unit ( DIG AUDIO SH )
Auxiliary Jack Assembly Connector for Inputs and Outputs ( With rear entertainment )
AUXILIARY JACK ASSEMBLY CONNECTOR ( 14P ) ( with rear entertainment )
Rear controller and screen ( HP R / L OUT SH )
Audio unit ( AUX VIDEO IN GND )
All existing signs shall be removed and there shall never be sites with a mixture of old and new signs .
Audio unit ( AUX AUDIO R / L SH )
Audio unit ( COMN CHK )
Audio unit ( HP R / L OUT GND )
Audio unit ( AUX VIDEO IN SH )
Audio unit ( AUX VIDEO IN )
Audio unit ( AUX VIDEO L )
Audio unit ( AUX AUDIO R / L GND )
Audio unit ( AUX AUDIO R )
Audio unit ( HP L OUT )
Audio unit ( HP R OUT )
Dealer logo ’ s should be avoided .
The rear entertainment system has a self-diagnostic function that shows on the display .
How to Enter the Self-diagnostic Function with the Audio Unit
To run the self-diagnostic , press the REAR PWR button four times within 3 seconds and hold the REAR PWR button in on the fourth time until the diagnostic screen appears .
How to Enter for Self-diagnostic Function with the Wireless Remote Control
To run the self-diagnostic , press the DVD / AUX button , the AM / FM button , the button , and then the AM / FM button again .
The buttons must be pressed in that order , and within 2 seconds of each other ( see table ) , and the self-diagnostic will begin .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) to cancel the self-diagnostic function .
After completing repair work , run the self-diagnostic function again to ensure that there are no other malfunctions .
Self-diagnostic Function Mode Select
Use the wireless , remote control to navigate within the self-diagnostic function .
The minimum sign requirement includes a Dealer Name letters , pole mounted pylon and wall signs .
LEFT / RIGHT button :
Change the function mode
UP / DOWN button :
Change the detection
ENTER button :
Select the detection point
Function No .
Category
Check item or information
Judge display
The machine , including the floor , must be kept clean ( free of foreign parts , oil etc . ) .
Only the Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters can be placed on the Louvres .
CONNECT
Rear controller and screen connection check
OK or NG with GRN or RED
Audio unit connection check
Auxiliary jack assembly connection check
XM receiver connection check
DIGITAL LINE
Digital line connection check
All signs should be applied in accordance with any local or national regulations and codes .
UNIT CHECK
DISPLAY VER
Rear controller and screen version and soft release day information
Rear controller and screen sub u-com version and soft release day information
Rear controller and screen COSD version and soft release day information
RAM CHECK
Rear controller and screen RAM check
DEALER DEFINITIONS
OK or NG
DISP PANEL
Screen open or close condition
OPEN or NG
+ B voltage
* * V or Err
TEMP .
Screen temperature
* * h or Err
MAIN DEALER
Self-diagnostic Function Mode Display
The screen will display connection check status for each device while in this self-diagnostic mode .
If the RAM condition for the RR DISP ( rear controller and screen ) is faulty , the screen will display NG ( red color ) .
If the connection for the H / U ( audio unit ) is XM ( XM receiver ) , or AUX ( auxiliary jack assembly ) is faulty , the screen will display NG ( red color ) .
If the digital line connection between the rear controller and screen and audio unit is faulty , the screen will display NG ( red color ) .
The screen will display device version , self-diagnostic status and screen status while in this self-diagnostic mode .
If a connection to a device is no-good , the screen will display .
If there is a change ( analog to digital ) of signal error for the categories + B VOLT or TEMP , the screen will display Err .
The screen indicates open or closed condition of the screen .
RES disc does not load
The Main Dealer has the full range of products and services .
Discs with labels should not be used in the DVD player unit ( built into the audio unit ) .
ensure the CD or DVD disc is compatible with the system ( refer to the Owner ' s Manual for more information ) .
Try loading a disc .
Intermittent failure , the DVD player unit is OK at this time .
Insert a known-good disc .
RES disc does not eject
Try ejecting a disc .
Does the disc eject ?
Intermittent failure , the DVD player unit ( built into the audio unit ) is OK at this time .
RES disc does not play
MAIN DEALER ADDITIONAL OUTLET
CD-R / RWs and DVD-R / RWs will not work in the DVD player unit ( built into the audio unit ) .
Damaged or contaminated discs may not always play properly .
You need to switch the audio unit REAR PWR button on for the rear display , remote controls , and sound to operate .
Try loading a DVD .
Does the DVD play ( display and sound ) ?
Insert a known-good DVD .
The original DVD is faulty or is an unreadable format .
Do the self-diagnostic function , then select function number 1 for Connect of the rear entertainment system .
Is the audio unit connect condition OK ?
Repair the poor connection in the audio unit connectors .
The Main Dealer additional outlet has the same range of services as the Main Dealer but is operated by a Main Dealer and has no contractual links with the NSC .
Substitute a known-good audio unit , then test the audio unit .
Replace the original audio unit .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at audio unit connectors , and recheck .
RES disc skips
Copy protected material on a CD-R / RW or DVD-R / RW disc will skip or not play .
Check for scratches , smudges , and fingerprints on the disc .
Try playing a disc .
Clean the disc , and recheck .
Does the disc play properly ?
The original disc was dirty .
HQ FULL SECONDARY DEALER
The original disc is dirty or the wrong type .
Compare the disc skipping to a known-good vehicle under the same conditions .
Does the known-good vehicle ' s disc skip under the same conditions ( over the same bumps and on the same rough roads ) ?
Black picture is shown on the display
If the navigation system , or XM radio do not function properly , troubleshoot and resolve those problems first .
With the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , push the rear power switch ON to see if the screen turns ON .
Does the screen come ON ?
Check for brightness settings in the display set up ( refer to the Owner ' s Manual for more information ) .
Are the display setting set properly ?
Adjust the display setting and recheck the function .
The HQ Secondary dealership has all services as the Main Dealer but has a contractual relation with a main HQ Dealer .
Check the No . 9 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the main under-hood fuse box .
Remove the display cover .
Then check that the rear controller and screen is properly connected .
Is the rear controller and screen connected properly ?
Disconnect the rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 1 of the rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) and body ground .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the No . 9 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the main under-hood fuse box and the rear controller and screen .
Reconnect the rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) .
Measure the voltage between the rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) terminal No . 24 and body ground .
Replace the rear controller and screen .
SALES ONLY DEALER
Repair open in the wire between the rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) terminal No . 24 and body ground ( G506 ) .
White picture is shown on the display / display lock
Is it normal ?
Run the rear entertainment system self-diagnostic .
Substitute a known-good rear controller and screen , and recheck .
If the symptom / indication goes away , replace the original rear controller and screen .
Display area picture has lines or has shifted
Does the screen come have lines or has the image shifted ?
Check the screen mode set up ( refer to the Owner ' s Manual for more information ) .
Are the settings set properly ?
The safety zones , footpath , driving path and escape routes may not be obstructed .
The Sales Only Dealer is only selling cars and has no service facilities .
Adjust the display settings , and recheck the function .
Display does not go off when screen is closed
With the ignition switch to ON ( II ) and screen open , push the rear power switch ON .
Then close the screen by pivoting it up .
Does the screen go off ?
Check the lock switch .
Does the screen close securely ?
If the screen securely closes and the screen does not go off , replace it .
Relock the screen , and recheck .
If the screen will not securely lock into position , replace it .
SERVICE ONLY DEALER
No display appears on the rear controller indicator
Does the screen come on ?
Check the operation and display of the screen , the wireless remote control and the wireless headphone .
Are the operation and display normal ?
Faulty rear indicator .
Screen faulty :
Go to the Black picture is shown on the display troubleshooting .
Wireless remote control faulty :
Go to the Wireless remote control does not work ( all buttons ) troubleshooting .
Wireless headphone faulty :
The Service Only Dealer carries out only service and maintenance works and has no sales facilities .
Go to the Wireless headphone sound is weak , distorted , volume does not change , or there is no sound in all modes troubleshooting .
No sound / no display with auxiliary video unit inputs
Check that the auxiliary device is properly connected , and has fresh batteries or power source connected .
Do not connect an RCA type shorting plug with the auxiliary jack assembly 14P connector , or system damage may occur .
Connect an auxiliary video source , and check the volume / display operation .
Does the display operate properly and does the audio shound normal ?
Substitute a known-good auxiliary video unit and recheck .
Does the auxiliary video unit operate properly ?
Original auxiliary video unit faulty .
Is the auxiliary jack assembly connect condition OK ?
The Service Only Dealer has a contractual relation with a Main Dealer .
Remove the auxiliary jack assembly .
Check that the auxiliary jack assembly is properly connected .
Is the auxiliary jack assembly connected properly ?
Disconnect the audio unit connector C ( 24P ) , E ( 16P ) , and the auxiliary jack assembly 14P connector .
Check for continuity between audio unit connector C ( 24P ) , E ( 16P ) and body ground according to the table .
Then check same terminals for continuity to the harness shield terminals C2 and E1 .
Short in the wire between the audio unit and the auxiliary jack assembly .
Replace the appropriate shielded harness .
Check for continuity between the terminal of audio unit connector C ( 24P ) and E ( 16P ) according to the table .
AUTHORISED REPAIR SHOP
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and auxiliary jack assembly ( replace the appropriate shielded harness ) .
Check for continuity between the audio unit connector C ( 24P ) , E ( 16P ) and auxiliary jack assembly 14P connector according to the table .
Auxiliary jack assembly connector
Open in the wire between the audio unit and the auxiliary jack assembly .
Connect an RCA type shorting plug to each audio input ( R and L ) .
Do not connect the RCA type shorting plug with the auxiliary jack assembly 14P connected , or system damage may occur .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of the auxiliary jack assembly .
Faulty auxiliary jack assembly .
The Authorised Repair Shop has the same services as the Service Dealer but has a direct contract with the admin department .
Remove the RCA type shorting plug ( s ) and check the same terminals again for continuity .
Substitute a known-good audio unit and recheck .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good rear controller and screen and recheck .
If the symptom / indicated goes away , replace the original rear controller and screen .
Wired headphone sound is weak , distorted , volume does not change , or there is no sound
Substitute a known-good wired headphone set and recheck .
Original wired headphone set is faulty .
Plug the wired headphones into the other ports of the auxiliary jack assembly to check their condition .
Do all the ports have the same symptom ?
Check that the wired headphone jack is properly connected .
Retail Signs - Revision 3
Is the headphone jack connected properly ?
Reconnect the wired headphone connector , and recheck the function .
Disconnect the auxiliary jack assembly 14P connector and rear controller and screen 24P connector .
Check for continuity between rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) and body ground according to the table .
Then check same terminals for continuity to the harness shield terminal A9 .
Rear controller and screen connector
Short in the wire between the rear controller and screen and the auxiliary jack assembly .
Check for continuity between the terminal of rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) according to the table .
1.0 GENERALLY
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between the rear controller and screen and the auxiliary jack assembly .
Check for continuity between the rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) and auxiliary jack assembly 14P connector according to the table .
Open in the wire between the rear controller and screen and the auxiliary jack assembly .
Wireless headphones do not work or there is static in DVD mode
Check the battery condition first .
Check the diagnosis menu 1 . CONNECT and 2 . UNIT CHECK of the rear entertainment system self-diagnostic .
If the self-diagnostic status indicator OK ( Green color ) ?
Go to the Wireless headphone sound is weak , distorted , volume does not change , or there is no sound in all modes .
Check that the digital audio lead at audio unit connector F ( 2P ) is properly connected to the audio unit .
Is the digital audio lead at audio unit connector F ( 2P ) connected properly ?
The new Visual Identity is developed to reinforce the Brand in all its activities .
Reconnect the audio unit connector F ( 2P ) and recheck the wireless headphone function .
Remove the rear controller and screen .
Check the digital audio lead at rear controller and screen connector B ( 2P ) is properly connected to the rear controller and screen .
Is the lead at screen connector B ( 2P ) properly ?
Disconnect the audio unit connector F ( 2P ) from the audio unit and the rear controller and screen .
Check for continuity in the digital audio lead between the audio unit connector F ( 2P ) terminal No . 1 and the rear controller and screen connector B ( 2P ) terminal No . 1 .
Replace the digital audio lead .
Check for continuity in the digital audio lead between the audio unit connector F ( 2P ) terminal No . 1 and body ground .
Replace the digital audio lead and / or sublead .
Check for continuity in the digital audio lead between the audio unit connector F ( 2P ) terminal No . 1 and terminal No . 2 .
Although new car sales is the priority business for a car manufacturer the After Sales and Used Cars business is a substantial part of the Dealer business .
Substitute a known-good audio unit and recheck the wireless headphone function .
Do the wireless headphones work in DVD mode ?
Wireless headphone sound is weak , sound distorted , there is static , volume does not change , or there is no sound in all modes
Substitute a known-good wireless headphone and recheck .
Replace the original wireless headphones .
Check the lens on the rear edge of the rear screen for dirt or damage .
Does the rear screen appear to be in good condition ?
Substitute a known-good rear controller and screen and recheck .
Disconnect the audio unit connector E ( 16P ) , and the rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) .
Check for continuity between audio unit connector E ( 16P ) and body ground according to the table .
Repairs and Maintenance
In order to maintain a consistent Visual Identity for each Dealer our Head Quarters has established a set of signs that are especially developed for the After Sales areas , Used Car areas and for dedicated Truck dealers and Service only workshops .
Then check the same terminals for continuity to the harness shield terminal E13 .
Short in the wire between the audio unit and the rear controller and screen .
Check for continuity between the terminal of audio unit connector E ( 16P ) according to the table .
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and rear controller and screen .
Check for continuity between the audio unit connector E ( 16P ) and rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) according to the table .
Rear controller and screen faulty .
Repair open in the wire between the audio unit and rear controller and screen .
Wireless remote control does not work ( all buttons )
The signage uses elements of the Wings VI programme , however some elements are exclusively for new car sales areas and may not be used on the After Sales , Used Cars and Truck areas .
Check the wireless remote control battery condition first .
ensure that the rear power and rear control are on ( refer to the Owner ' s Manual for more information ) .
Check the wireless remote control operation .
Does the wireless remote control operate normally ?
Substitute a known-good wireless remote control and recheck .
Replace the original wireless remote control .
Check the audio unit operation .
Does the audio unit operate normally ?
Go to the audio unit power switch will not turn on ( No information display and no sound ) troubleshooting .
Check the rear controller display .
These elements are :
Does the display operate normally ?
Replace the rear indicator sub-printed circuit board .
If you are riding your vehicle infrequently , inspect the battery voltage weekly using a voltmeter .
If it drops below 12.8 volts , the battery should be charged using an appropriate charger .
Go to the No display appears on the rear indicator troubleshooting .
Wireless remote control does not work ( source select buttons )
Does the source select button operate ?
Check the diagnosis menu 1 . CONNECT status of the rear entertainment system self-diagnostic .
Is the device connect condition OK ?
The Entrance Element .
Replace the wireless remote control .
Repair the connection for the device that has a connection error indicated .
Wireless remote control does not work ( rear power button )
The audio unit main and rear pwr must be ON before the wireless remote control power button will operate .
Does the audio unit indicate REAR PWR ?
Press the REAR PWR button on the audio unit .
Is the rear power button on ?
Screen backlight does not dim / remains dim
Turn the combination light switch ON and OFF .
Does the screen backlight dim with the combination light switch in the ON position ?
The Showroom Louvres .
Check the backlight settings in the display set up ( refer to the Owner ' s Manual for more information ) .
Are the display settings set properly ?
Check that the rear controller and screen and audio unit are properly connected .
Turn the combination light switch on and off to see if the voltage changes .
Is there battery voltage with the combination light switch ON ?
Check the illumination of several other unit / switches not related to the rear entertainment system .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the interior light relay in the auxiliary under-hood relay box and the rear controller and screen .
Start by checking the interior light relay in the auxiliary under-hood relay box .
If the relay is OK , check the No . 22 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the under-hood fuse / relay box .
If there is OK , check for open in the wire between the under-hood fuse / relay box and the interior light relay .
The Retail pylon .
Repair open in the wire between rear controller and screen connector A ( 24P ) terminal No . 24 and body ground ( G506 ) .
DVD player unit DISC IN indicator or DISC DISTINCTION indicator does not come on / does not go off
Check the DVD player unit operation .
Does the DVD player unit operate normally ?
Substitute a known-good disc and recheck .
Original disc is faulty .
Wireless remote control illumination does not come on
Does the illumination for all the buttons come on ( 10 seconds ) ?
Replace the batteries in the wireless remote control and recheck .
Does the wireless control illumination come on ?
Main elements for the After Sales , Used Cars and Truck areas are :
The original batteries were faulty .
Peeled label stuck in player
Wrong type disc
Poor connections or disconnect device
Low batteries in accessory device , or disconnected from power source
Wireless headphone sound is weak , sound is distorted , there is static , volume does not change , or there is no sound in all modes
Wireless headphone batteries
Wireless remote control batteries
An error code is displayed
Enter the self-diagnostic function with the wireless remote control , then scroll to function 3 .
The Dealer Name letters .
With Rear Entertainment
Gently pull out the console rear trim ( A ) .
Disconnect the 14P connector ( B ) , and remove the auxiliary jack assembly .
Carefully pry out the auxiliary jack assembly .
Take care not to scratch the headliner and display cover .
Remove the mounting bolts , disconnect the connectors ( A ) from the rear controller and screen .
Remove the wireless remote control ( A ) .
Remove the screws from the rear indicator ( B ) .
Disconnect the cable from the rear indicator .
Remove the screws , then remove the rear indicator sub printed circuit board ( A ) .
Pole mounted pylons .
Remove the screws , then remove the screen ( A ) and base ( B ) .
Disconnect the cable .
Remove the screws and lock switches ( A ) .
Disconnect the cable ( A ) , then remove the screws and the rear control main printed circuit board ( B ) .
Install the parts in the reverse order of removal , and ensure the rear controller and screen connector are plugged in properly .
Remove the cover ( A ) from the remote control .
Remove the batteries ( B ) .
Replacement Battery :
Confirm that each operation works normally after replacing the batteries .
Supportive signs .
Remove the battery cover ( A ) from the wireless headphone and lift the cover .
Remove the battery ( B ) from the wireless headphone .
Replacement Battery Size :
Turn the left earpiece ( A ) , and confirm that the indicator ( B ) comes on after the battery is replaced .
XM radio display is blank and no station information is displayed ( Without AcuraLink )
If 0,5 volts or less are present , replace the original audio unit .
Disconnect audio unit connector D ( 14P ) , XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) , navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) , and navigation display unit 20P connector .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of the audio unit connector D ( 14P ) and XM receiver A ( 14P ) .
XM Receiver connector
Note :
2.0 AFTER SALES
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between audio unit and XM receiver .
Check for continuity between body ground and XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) terminals No . 9 and No . 10 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and the XM receiver or a short between the shield wires ( replace the applicable shielded harness ) .
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and the XM receiver ( replace the appropriate shield harness ) .
If the symptom / indicated goes away , replace the original XM receiver .
Turn on the audio unit , and set each of the XM radio channel preset buttons .
Do each of the XM radio channel preset buttons set properly ?
Test all of the XM radio channel preset buttons for proper recall operation .
Intermittent failure , the system is normal at this time .
The After Sales areas can be divided in sub categories :
Repair open in the wire between the under-dash fuse / relay box and XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) terminal No . 1 .
Measure the voltage between XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) terminal No . 2 , and body ground individually .
Repair open in the wire between the under-dash fuse-relay box and XM receiver connector A ( 14P ) terminal No . 2 .
Replace the XM receiver .
Disconnect the connectors ( A ) , then remove the bolts and pull out the XM receiver ( B ) .
Install the XM receiver in the reverse order of removal .
Disconnect the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) .
Repair open in the between the No . 5 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) terminal No . 1 .
Repair open in the wire between the No . 32 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) terminal No . 2 .
Reconnect the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) .
Rapid Service .
Disconnect audio unit connector D ( 14P ) , XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) , navigation unit connector A ( 20P ) , and navigation display unit 20P connector .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of the audio unit connector D ( 14P ) and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) .
XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between audio unit and the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) .
Check for continuity between body ground and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) terminals No . 7 and 17 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) or between the shield wires ( replace the applicable shield harness ) .
Check for continuity between the terminals of XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) according to the cable .
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between the audio unit and the XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) ( replace the appropriate shield harness ) .
If the symptom is still present , substitute a known-good XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) , and recheck .
Diagnostics .
If the symptom indicated goes away , update the AcuraLink control unit if it does not have the latest software , then recheck .
If the software is the latest , replace the AcuraLink control unit .
Disconnect XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) .
Repair open in the wire between the under-dash fuse / relay box and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) terminal No . 1 .
Measure the voltage between XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) terminals No . 2 and No . 12 and body ground individually .
Repair open in the wire between the under-dash fuse-relay box and XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) terminals No . 2 and No . 12 .
Reconnect XM receiver ( AcuraLink control unit ) connector A ( 20P ) .
Update the AcuraLink control unit if it does not have the latest software , then recheck .
The AcuraLink must be reactivated by Acura Client Services when :
The AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) is replaced .
Service Only Workshops .
DATA RESET was selected while in the self-diagnostic function .
Vehicle ownership changes .
Disconnect the connectors ( A ) , then remove the bolts and pull out the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) ( B ) .
Install the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) in the reverse order of removal .
If you replaced the AcuraLink control unit , ensure it has the latest software .
Only select DATA RESET from the XM ( HIP ) FT screen when instructed .
The AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) has a self-diagnostic function .
How to Enter the Self-diagnostic Function
Always check for and repair any B-CAN or F-CAN DTCs before troubleshooting the AcuraLink system .
Press the interface dial .
Shared Workshops .
Press and hold the MAP / GUIDE , CANCEL , and MENU buttons simultaneously for 3 seconds more , and the self-diagnosis begins .
Using interface dial , select the NAVI System from the Select Diagnosis Items menu .
The display indicates NAVI System Link , and will perform a Navi connection check for each device .
If a connection is faulty , the place where it is faulty will be indicated with NG ( red color ) .
If the XM ( HIP ) indicator is NG ( red color ) , go to .
Using the interface dial , select the Return from the Navi System Link .
Using the interface dial , select the XM ( HIP ) from the Select Diagnosis Items menu .
Using the interface dial , select the XM ( HIP ) System Link from the XM ( HIP ) menu .
The display indicates XM ( HIP ) System Link , and will do an AcuraLink connection check for each device .
When a red color is indicated , check the continuity between the XM receiver unit and the device indicated in red .
LEGEND Lamp Artemide
Red color indicate device
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 6 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 12 of the Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) :
Check for continuity between terminal No . 16 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 6 of the Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and PCM connector A ( 49P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 6 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 48 of the PCM connector A ( 49P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and VSA control unit 46P connector disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 6 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 18 of the VSA control unit 46P connector :
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and TPMS control unit 20P connector disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 6 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 1 of the TPMS control unit 20P connector :
Check for continuity between terminal No . 16 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 11 of the TPMS control unit 20P connector ) :
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 6 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 10 of the SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 6 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 11of the Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 6 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 1 of the active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 6 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 3 of the Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector :
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 6 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 4 of the Steering angle sensor 6D connector :
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , PCM connector A ( 49P ) , VSA control unit 46P connector , TPMS control unit 20P connector , SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) , active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector , Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
Check for continuity between terminals No . 6 and No . 16 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and body ground :
Check for continuity between terminals No . 1 and No . 6 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) :
Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , PCM connector A ( 49P ) , VSA control unit 46P connector , TPMS control unit 20P connector , SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) , active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector , Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
A short in the XM receiver unit
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) , PCM connector A ( 49P ) , VSA control unit 46P connector , TPMS control unit 20P connector , SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) , active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector , Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
A short in the Gauge control module
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , VSA control unit 46P connector , TPMS control unit 20P connector , SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) , active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector , Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
A short in the PCM
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , PCM connector A ( 49P ) , TPMS control unit 20P connector , SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) , active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector , Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
A short in the VSA control unit
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , PCM connector A ( 49P ) , VSA control unit 46P connector , SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) , active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector , Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
A short in the TPMS control unit
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , PCM connector A ( 49P ) , VSA control unit 46P connector , TPMS control unit 20P connector , Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) , active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector , Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
A short in the SH-AWD control unit
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , PCM connector A ( 49P ) , VSA control unit 46P connector , TPMS control unit 20P connector , SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) , active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector , Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
A short in the Polox unit
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , PCM connector A ( 49P ) , VSA control unit 46P connector , TPMS control unit 20P connector , SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector , Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
A short in the active damper control unit
Visual check
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , PCM connector A ( 49P ) , VSA control unit 46P connector , TPMS control unit 20P connector , SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) , active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) , Steering angle sensor 6D connector disconnected
A short in the Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , PCM connector A ( 49P ) , VSA control unit 46P connector , TPMS control unit 20P connector , SH-AWD control unit connector A ( 20P ) , Polox unit connector A ( 27P ) , active damper control unit connector B ( 14P ) , Yaw rate-lateral / longitudinal acceleration sensor 4P connector disconnected
A short in the Steering angle sensor
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and MICU connector G ( 6P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 1 of the MICU connector G ( 6P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 28 of the door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 2 of the rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and combination switch 8P connector disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 4 of the combination switch 8P connector :
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and relay control module connector E ( 14P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 1 of the relay control module connector E ( 14P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 40 of the power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 4 of the immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector :
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 7 of the power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) :
TCT 42W 4000K x 2 Luceri 2x42W + glass L598200 + L591320
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 5 of the gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 19 of the HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector :
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) and audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 23 of the audio unit connector C ( 24P ) :
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and body ground :
Check for continuity between terminal No . 5 of XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) and terminal No . 1 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) body ground :
MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
Suspended MixFix powertronic gear 3x35W CDM-R Gimbal
A short in the XM receiver control unit
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
A short in the MICU
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
A short in the door MPCS
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
A short in the rear MICU
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
A short in the combination switch control unit
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
Suspended MixFix powertronic gear 3x70W CDM-R Gimbal
A short in the relay control module
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
A short in the power seat control unit
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
A short in the immobilizer keyless control unit
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
A short in the power tailgate control unit
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
A short in the gauge control module
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , audio unit connector C ( 24P ) disconnected
A short in the HandsFreeLink control unit
XM receiver control unit connector B ( 16P ) , MICU connector G ( 6P ) , door MPCS connector A ( 40P ) , rear MICU connector B ( 34P ) , combination switch 8P connector , relay control module connector ( 14P ) , power seat control unit connector B ( 40P ) , immobilizer-keyless control unit 7P connector , power tailgate control unit connector C ( 14P ) , gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) , HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector disconnected
A short in the audio unit
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and navigation unit connector F ( 6D ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 3 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 1 of the navigation unit connector F ( 6D ) :
Check for continuity between terminal No . 4 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 3 of the navigation unit connector F ( 6D ) :
Check for continuity between terminal No . 3 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and body ground :
Navigation unit connector F ( 6D ) disconnected
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) disconnected
DRAWN BY
A short in the navigation unit
Check for continuity between terminal No . 1 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 8 of the XM receiver unit connector B ( 16P ) :
HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector disconnected
XM receiver control unit connector A ( 20P ) and audio unit connector D ( 14P ) disconnected
Check for continuity between terminal No . 7 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 9 of the audio unit connector D ( 14P ) :
Check for continuity between terminal No . 17 of XM receiver unit connector A ( 20P ) and terminal No . 10 of the audio unit connector D ( 14P ) :
Audio unit connector D ( 14P ) disconnected
If the XM antenna connection condition is faulty , XM ANTENNA is indicated on the audio-HVAC subdisplay-clock .
If the indication does not go away , confirm DTCs , and refer to the relevant system troubleshooting and input tests .
Use the interface dial to , select the Exit Diag .
CLIENT
Press the interface dial to cancel the self-diagnostic function .
The AcuraLink uses the client ' s cell phone or XM radio to transmit and receive information about the vehicle .
In addition , the AcuraLink system has a Text-To-Speech engine , and will also have the capability to initiate voice or data calls with the HandsFreeLink control unit .
The AcuraLink control unit ( HIP ) is very similar in design to an XM receiver that has additional communication features .
The main functions include :
Receiving and playing XM stations .
Displays station , song title and other information on the audio unit using the GA-Net bus .
Receiving XM traffic channel data .
Gives Feature Guide tips .
Receiving AcuraLink messages and displaying then in the navigation display .
SCALE
Processing DTC ( diagnostic trouble code ) error messages from the PCM , the SRS and other systems and displaying them on the navigation display .
Sending DTC information to the AcuraLink servers using the client ' s cell phone ( only if client has set up and enabled this option ) .
Service Application
Malfunction indicator lamp ( MIL ) explanation ( from server message and vehicle message )
Service information message
Recall Information
Quick tips
Place to provide feedback / view cautions that were not available when vehicle was initially sold
Correction of address and full name that is registered
Real time traffic information
PROJECT
Maintenance information message
Feature guide ( 90 days )
AcuraLink services do not work
In order for the AcuraLink service to work , the client must have an activated account with XM ( receives all channels ) .
If you can only tune to channel 000 , 001 , 174 , and 247 , ensure that the audio unit is set to the channel mode ( see owner ' s manual ) .
If it is set to the channel mode , call XM radio customer support and check the account activation status .
Call Acura Client Services and verify the unit status .
Request ACS to send an activation signal to the vehicle .
Park the vehicle outside , and let the vehicle idle for about an hour .
Does the AcuraLink service application work ?
Manual control
3 Hour maintained emergency luminaire E
The vehicle is OK at this time .
Check the ACC circuit .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 2 of the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P ) and body ground .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the AcuraLink control unit and the No . 32 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 12 of the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P ) and body ground .
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the No . 21 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Check for loose wires or poor connections at the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P ) .
If the connections are good , substitute a known-good AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) , and recheck .
If the symptom goes away , Update the AcuraLink control unit if it does not have the latest software , then recheck .
Check for an open in the wire between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and body ground .
Luceri 2x42W + glass
Blown fuse No . 21 ( 7,5 A ) and No . 32 ( 10 A ) in the under-dash fuse / relay box
AcuraLink services do not work after replacing the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver )
Navigation System Symptom Troubleshooting
Call Acura Client Services and request an activation .
Call XM client care and register the replacement AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) .
The client must have an active XM account .
Try several XM stations .
If only channels 000 , 001 , 174 , and 247 can be tuned , the account is inactive , or there is a problem with the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) .
GNA600 kit and an iN workstation
with AcuraLink update software
DRAWING No .
PCMCIA Memory Card
Reprogramming Cable
Reprogramming Cable Adapter
Whenever you install a new AcuraLink control unit , you must update the control unit with the latest software .
The GNA 600 is the only tool currently available to update the AcuraLink control unit .
If you are updating a control unit in a new vehicle , ensure all the fuses are installed .
ensure the iN workstation has the latest HDS software installed .
( The AcuraLink update software is contained in the Polox system update CD . )
Lamp
The update may take up to 60 minutes .
You cannot update an AcuraLink control unit with its current or previous software versions .
It will only accept a new software version .
Before you update the AcuraLink control unit , test the vehicle battery , and only proceed if the results are good .
ensure the battery is connected to a battery booster ( not a battery charger ) while updating the control unit .
If the battery is not in good condition , or it dies during the updating procedure , you may damage the AcuraLink control unit .
If you encounter errors in the software , follow the on-screen instructions , or if necessary , reboot the iN workstation , and try again .
There are five process involved in updating the AcuraLink control unit :
Setting up the GNA600
Capturing the current program ID from the AcuraLink control unit
LEGEND
Download the new software to the GNA600
Update the software in the vehicle ' s AcuraLink control unit
Confirm the AcuraLink self-diagnosis
Do the update with the ignition switch turned to LOCK ( 0 ) .
To prevent damage to the AcuraLink control unit , do not operate anything electrical ( brakes , head lights , etc . ) during the update .
If it is not one of our multimeters , ensure its output is less than 10 mA ( 0,01 A ) when switched to the lowest value in the ohmmeter range .
To update the AcuraLink control unit , you must connect the GNA600 to the AcuraLink connector ( A ) , not the XTF .
Before you update an AcuraLink control unit , read the procedure .
The order of connecting and disconnecting connectors is critical , and some steps must be done within a specified period of time .
If the steps are not followed exactly , you may have to repeat the procedure from the start , and in same cases , you may damage the GNA600 or the AcuraLink control unit .
ensure the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) .
Launch the AcuraLink Update program and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the update .
If the software in the AcuraLink control unit is the latest , disconnect the update tool from the AcuraLink connector .
If the update is part of a troubleshooting or a repair procedure , return to that procedure and continue troubleshoot or repairing the vehicle .
ensure the Polox system communicates with the vehicle and the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) .
Select C3PO in the BODY ELECTRICAL menu .
Select DTCs in the C3PO menu .
Deleting the AcuraLink Messages ( with the Polox system )
To delete all messages including Recall and Diagnostic Info :
Using the Polox system , go to the BODY ELECTRICAL menu , select C3PO , then select HIP RESET menu , select DTC Log Data Clear and follow the Polox system on screen instructions .
SCHEME
Deleting the AcuraLink Messages ( without HDS ) ( To delete a single message )
Diagnostic info and recall / campaign messages can only be deleted with HDS .
Press the INFO button to bring up the Information screen .
Scroll to the Message option , then select it by pressing ENTER on the interface selector .
Select the message category that contains the message you want to delete .
Use the interface knob to scroll up or down to the message title you want to delete , and select it by pressing ENTER on the interface selector .
Scroll to Delete with the interface knob , and select it by pressing ENTER on the interface selector .
Deleting the AcuraLink Messages ( without HDS ) ( To delete all message )
The Delete All Messages command does not apply to Diagnostic Info and Recall messages .
They can only be deleted with HDS .
Gimbal 3f
Press the SETUP button to view the setup screen .
Select MORE by pushing the interface selector to the right .
Use the interface knob to scroll to the AcuraLink / Messages button , and select it by pressing ENTER on the interface selector .
Scroll to the Delete Messages option , and select it by pressing ENTER on the interface selector .
Scroll to the category with the messages you want to delete , and select the category by pressing ENTER on the interface selector .
AcuraLink Control Unit EEPROM Error
Check for DTCs with the Polox system and DTC log data in the navigation system diagnostic mode .
Is DTC B2202 indicated with HDS and on the navigation display ?
Check for poor connections or loose terminals at the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) .
Lightcast Downlight
If all connections are OK , replace the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) .
B-CAN Communication Line Error
B-CAN communication line is OK at this time .
Disconnect the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) and gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) .
Check for continuity between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) terminal No . 5 and gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminal No . 5 .
Repair open in the wire between AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the gauge control module .
F-CAN communication line is OK at this time .
Check for continuity between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) terminals No . 6 , No . 16 and gauge control module connector A ( 12P ) terminals No . 6 , No . 12 .
If all connections are OK , update the AcuraLink control unit if it does not have the latest software , then recheck .
Navigation Unit Lost Communication with AcuraLink Control Unit
BACK-OFFICE ORGANISATION
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , then turn it ON ( II ) and wait 30 seconds or more .
Is DTC B2207 , B2208 indicated ?
Check the battery condition .
If the system OK , replace the ( XM receiver ) .
If only B2207 is indicated , go to .
If only B2208 is indicated , refer to the B2208 troubleshooting .
Disconnect the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P ) and navigation unit connector F ( 6D ) .
Check for continuity between the following terminals of the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P ) and navigation unit connector F ( 6D ) according to the table .
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P )
Navigation unit connector F ( 6D )
Automatic function
WORKSHOP VEHICLES WAITING
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the navigation unit .
Check for continuity between body ground and AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P ) terminals No . 3 , 4 , 13 and 14 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the navigation unit .
Check for continuity between the terminals of AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P ) as follows .
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the navigation unit ( replace the appropriate shielded harness ) .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and measure the same terminals for voltage .
Repair short to power in the wire ( s ) between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the navigation unit .
WASHING AREA
Reconnect the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P ) .
Measure the resistance between AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P ) terminals No . 3 , No . 4 , and No . 13 , No . 14 .
Is there less than about 100k ?
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) is faulty , update the AcuraLink control unit if it does not have the latest software , then recheck .
Reconnect the navigation unit connector F ( 6D ) .
Measure the voltage between the body ground and the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector A ( 20P ) terminals No . 3 , No . 4 individually .
Is there less than about 3,5 V ?
Navigation unit is faulty , replace the navigation unit .
HandsFreeLink Control Unit Lost Communication with AcuraLink Control Unit
Disconnect the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) and HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector .
TOOLS
Check for continuity between the following terminals of the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) and HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector according to the table .
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P )
HandsFreeLink control unit 28P connector
Repair open in the wire ( s ) between AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the HandsFreeLink control unit .
Check for continuity between body ground and AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) terminals No . 7 , 8 , 15 and 16 individually .
Repair short to body ground in the wire ( s ) between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the HandsFreeLink control unit .
Check for continuity between the terminals of AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) as follows .
Repair short in the wire ( s ) between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the HandsFreeLink control unit ( replace the appropriate shield harness ) .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) and check the same terminals for voltage .
COMMON HEAVY BODYSHOP
Repair short to power in the wire ( s ) between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the HandsFreeLink control unit .
Reconnect the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) .
Measure the resistance between AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) terminals No . 7 , No . 8 , and No . 15 , No . 16 .
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) is faulty , replace the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) .
Reconnect the HandsFreeLink control unit 22P connector .
Measure the voltage between the body ground and the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector B ( 16P ) terminals No . 7 , No . 8 individually .
AcuraLink Control Unit Internal Error
Intermittent failure , AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) is OK at this time .
XM Antenna Error
Intermittent failure , the XM antenna is OK at this time .
RECEPTION FOR PROFESSIONALS
Check for poor connections or loose terminals at the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the XM antenna .
Check the XM antenna lead connection at the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and at the XM antenna .
Reconnect the connector , and recheck the DTC .
Disconnect the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) connector C ( 2P ) .
Measure the voltage between the body ground and the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) terminal C ( 2P ) terminal No . 1 .
AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) is faulty , Update the AcuraLink control unit if it does not have the latest software , then recheck .
Disconnect the XM antenna 2P connector .
Check for continuity between body ground and the XM antenna 2P connector terminal No . 1 .
Replace the antenna lead between the AcuraLink control unit ( XM receiver ) and the XM antenna .
Check for continuity between the XM antenna 2P connector terminal No . 1 and No . 2 ( outside of the lead ) .
WAREHOUSE
Reconnect the AcuraLink control unit C ( 2P ) connector .
Measure the voltage between the body ground and the XM antenna 2P connector terminal No . 1 .
XM antenna is faulty , replace the XM antenna .
Left side shown ; right side similar .
clip UNIT HARNESS 18P CONNECTOR
UNDER-DASH FUSE / RELAY BOXCONNECTOR S ( 2P )
A7 / 16-20 UNF47 Nm ( 4,8 kgfm , 35 lbfft )
LEFT ENGINE COMPARTMENT WIRE HARNESS
RIGHT ENGINE COMPARTMENT WIRE HARNESS
REST ROOM
FRONT PASSENGER ' S SEAT WIREHARNESS 3P CONNECTOR
FRONT SHOULDERANCHOR ADJUSTER
THIRD ROW SEAT BELTDETACHABLE ANCHOR
CAN L
SATELLITE SAFING SENSOR
Bulb test / Replacement ,
DATA LINKCONNECTER ( XTF )
MEMORY ERASE SIGNAL ( MES ) CONNECTOR ( 2P ) ( YELLOW )
COMPULSORY TURN − ON CIRCUIT
SRS GND ( 1 )
BODY REPAIR WITHOUT PAINT
REAR SAFING SENSOR
SSS −
FRONT PASSENGER ' S SEAT WIRE HARNESS
RIGHT ENGINE COMPARTMENT WIRE HARNESS
The illustration shows A-pillar .
Remove the rear trim panel .
Remove the screws ( A ) , and remove the third row child seat tether anchors ( B ) .
OFFICES
Install the anchor in the reverse order of removal , and apply medium strength liquid thread lock to the threads of the child seat tether anchor screws .
Check the front seat belts for damage , and replace them if necessary .
Front Seat Belt
Slide the front seat all the way forward , and adjust the seat to its maximum height .
Carefully pry up on the bottom of the anchor cover ( A ) to release the tab ( B ) with a small flat-tip screwdriver from below inside the recline cover , then remove it .
Adjust the seat to its minimum height , then remove the lower anchor bolt ( A ) .
Do the battery terminal disconnection procedure , and wait at least 3 minutes before removing the front seat belt .
Remove the B-pillar lower trim .
Remove the B-pillar upper trim .
Remove the upper anchor bolt ( A ) .
AFTER SALES RECEPTION
Disconnect the seat belt tensioner connector ( A ) .
Remove the upper retractor mounting bolt ( B ) and the lower retractor bolt , then remove the front seat belt ( D ) and retractor ( E ) .
If necessary , remove the front seat belt protector ( F ) .
Remove the shoulder anchor adjuster ( A ) .
Install the seat belt in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Apply medium strength liquid thread lock to the anchor bolts before reinstallation .
Tighten the bolts by hand first , then tighten to the specified torque .
Check that the retractor locking mechanism functions as described .
Assemble the washer , collar , and bushing on the upper anchor bolt as shown .
If the seat belt tensioner has been deployed , replace the front seat belt protector with a new one .
Safety devices
BRAND EXPERIENCE
Before installing the anchor bolts , ensure there are no twists or kinks in the seat belt .
ensure the seat belt tensioner connector is properly plugged in .
Upper anchor bolt installation
Seat Belt Buckle
Remove the right cover .
Remove the front cover .
Remove the back cover .
Remove the center cover .
Lift up the front seat , then disconnect the seat belt buckle switch connector ( A ) and detach the harness clip ( B ) .
The driver ' s seat is shown ; the passenger ' s seat is similar .
FASTFIT SERVICES
Remove the center anchor bolt ( A ) and detach the harness clips ( B ) , then remove the seat belt buckle .
Pull the seat belt buckle switch harness ( D ) out through the space between the seat cushion and the seat linkage .
Install the buckle in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Assemble the washers on the center anchor bolt as shown .
Apply medium strength liquid thread lock to the center anchor bolt before reinstallation .
Tighten the bolts by hand first , then tighten to specification with a torque wrench .
ensure the seat belt buckle switch connector is plugged in properly .
Center anchor bolt installation
Out of Vehicle
For front seat belt retractor with seat belt tensioner , review the SRS component locations and the precautions and procedures before doing repairs or service .
DISABLED PARKING
Before installing the retractor , check that the seat belt can be pulled out freely .
ensure that the seat belt does not lock when the retractor ( A ) is leaned slowly up to 15 from the mounted position .
The seat belt should lock when the retractor is leaned over 40 .
Do not attempt to disassemble the retractor .
Second row
Center Second row
Third row
Replace the seat belt with a new assembly if there is any abnormality .
Do not disassemble any part of the seat belt for any reason .
ENTRANCE
In-vehicle
Check that the seat belt is not twisted or caught on anything .
After installing the anchors , check for free movement on the anchor bolts .
If necessary , remove the anchor bolts and check that the washers and other parts are not damaged or improperly installed .
Check the seat belts for damage or discoloration .
Clean with a shop towel if necessary .
Use only soap and water to clean .
Dirt build up in the loops of the upper anchors can cause the seat belts to retract slowly .
Wipe the inside of the loops with a clean cloth dampened in isopropyl alcohol .
Check that the seat belt does not lock when pulled out slowly .
Front-Office
The seat belt is designed to lock only during a sudden stop or impact .
ensure that the seat belt will retract automatically when released .
For each passenger ' s seat belt , check the seat belt retractor locking mechanism ALR ( automatic locking retractor ) .
This function is for securing child seats .
Pull the seat belt all the way out to engage the ALR .
The seat belt should retract , but not extend .
To disengage the ALR , release the seat belt and allow it to fully retract , then pull the seat belt out part-way .
The seat belt should retract and extend normally .
Check the second row seat belts for damage , and replace them if necessary .
Second Row Seat Belt
TECHNICAL ROOM
Slide the second row seat forward fully .
Pull the carpet ( A ) back , and remove the lower anchor bolt ( B ) .
Remove the seat belt exit C-pillar cap ( A ) .
Pull out the rear upper corner of the cap to release the upper hook ( B ) and the rear hook .
Release the front hook ( D ) and lower hook ( E ) together by pulling the cap upward and rearward .
Take the cap off the second row seat belt ( F ) .
Detach the clip ( A ) by pulling the bottom of the quarter pillar trim ( B ) back .
While holding the trim away from the C-pillar , pull the second row seat belt , upper anchor , tongue plate ( D ) , and the lower anchor ( E ) into the trim , and pull the entire second row seat belt down .
Remove the upper retractor mounting bolt ( A ) and the lower retractor bolt ( B ) , then remove the front seat belt and retractor ( D ) .
The left second row seat belt is shown ; the right second row seat belt is similar .
COMMON WORKSHOP
Check that the retractor locking mechanism functions .
Assemble the washers , collar , and bushing on the upper anchor bolt as shown .
Before installing the anchor bolts , ensure there are no twists or kinks in the second row seat belt .
Left Seat Belt Buckle
Remove the left second row seat .
From under the seat cushion , release the hooks of the back cover carpet from the seat cushion frame , then pull the carpet back .
With seat heater :
Disconnect the seat cushion heater connector , and remove the wire ties .
ISO-FIX bracket outer cover
Remove the seat cushion from the left second row seat .
NEW CARS DELIVERY
Remove the center anchor bolt ( A ) , and remove the seat belt buckle ( B ) .
Apply medium strength type liquid thread lock to the anchor bolt before reinstallation .
Assemble the washers , collar and bushing on the center anchor bolt as shown .
Right Seat Belt Buckle
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the pivot bolts ( A ) , then carefully lift the seat cushion ( B ) up as needed .
Apply medium strength liquid thread lock to the anchor bolt before reinstallation .
Assemble the washers , collar , and bushing on the center anchor bolt as shown .
Center Second Row Seat Belt
Detach the clips , and remove the seat belt cover ( A ) .
Remove the upper anchor mounting bolt ( A ) and upper anchor bolts ( B ) , then remove the upper anchor .
LIGHT BODYSHOP
Remove the retractor mounting bolt ( A ) and retractor bolt ( B ) , then remove the retractor .
Install the center second row seat belt and retractor in the reverse order of removal , and note these items :
Before installing the upper anchor bolt , ensure there are no twists or kinks in the seat belt .
Center Second Row Seat Belt Buckle
Slide the right second row seat fully forward .
Remove the center anchor bolt ( A ) , and remove the seat belt buckle ( B ) from the elastic strap , then remove it through the space between the link bracket and seat cushion .
Install the buckle in the reverse order of removal , and apply medium strength type liquid thread lock to the anchor bolt before reinstallation .
Center Second Row Seat Belt Detachable Anchor
Remove the seat belt detachable anchor ( A ) from the elastic strap ( B ) .
Remove the lower anchor bolt ( A ) .
RENAULT MINUTE SERVICES
Remove the seat belt detachable anchor ( A ) .
Install the detachable anchor in the reverse order of removal , and apply medium strength type liquid thread lock to the anchor bolt before reinstallation .
Third Row Seat Belt
Check the third row seat belts for damage , and replace them if necessary .
Detach the third row seat belt lower anchor .
Remove the seat belt exit D-pillar cap ( A ) .
Pull out the top of the cap to release the hooks ( B ) .
Release the lower hook by pulling the cap upward .
Take the cap off the third row seat belt ( D ) .
Remove the bolts ( A ) and the seat belt guide ( B ) .
MOT [ Ministry of Transport ; Equivalent of local vehicle testing required by government ]
Remove the retractor mounting bolt ( A ) and the retractor bolt ( B ) , then remove the third row seat belt and retractor ( D ) .
Assemble the washers and bushing on the upper anchor bolt as shown .
Seat Belt Buckle / Seat Belt Detachable Anchor
The seat belt buckle is shown , and the seat belt detachable anchor is similar .
Remove the screw ( A ) , and release the hook ( B ) , then remove the bracket cover .
Remove the center anchor bolt ( A ) , then remove the seat belt buckle ( B ) .
Assemble the washers , spring , bushing , bracket , and collar on the center anchor bolt as shown .
Center anchor bolt construction
Please read the following precautions carefully before servicing the airbag system .
Observe the instructions described in this manual , or the airbags could accidentally deploy and cause damage or injuries .
RENAULT FRONT-OFFICE
Except when doing electrical inspections , always turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , do the battery terminal disconnection procedure , then wait for 3 minutes before starting work .
The SRS memory is not erased even if the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) or the battery cables are disconnected from the battery .
Use replacement parts which are manufactured to the same standards and quality as the original parts .
Do not install used SRS parts .
Use only new parts when making SRS repairs .
Carefully inspect any SRS part before you install it .
Do not install any part that shows signs of being dropped or improperly handled , such as dents , cracks or deformation .
Before removing the Polox unit connectors , always disconnect the appropriate SRS parts connectors .
Use only a digital multimeter to check the system .
If it ' s not one of our multimeters , ensure its output is less than 10 mA ( 0,01 A ) when switched to the smallest value in the ohmmeter range .
A tester with a higher output could cause accidental deployment and possible injury .
Do not put objects on the front passenger ' s airbag .
Press to open or close the disc tray .
The original audio system has a coded theft protection circuit .
Steering-Related Precautions
Cable Reel Alignment
Misalignment of the cable reel could cause an open in the wiring , making the SRS system , remote steering wheel controls , and the horn inoperative .
Center the cable reel whenever the following is performed .
Installation of the steering wheel
Installation of the cable reel
DEMONSTRATION VEHICLES
Installation of the steering column
Other steering-related adjustment or installation
Do not disassemble the cable reel .
Do not apply grease to the cable reel .
If the cable reel shows any signs of damage , replace it with a new one .
For example , if it does not rotate smoothly , replace the cable reel .
Airbag Handling and Storage
Do not disassemble an airbag .
It has no serviceable parts .
Once an airbag has been deployed , it cannot be repaired or reused .
CUSTOMERS PARKING
For temporary storage of an airbag during service , observe the following precautions .
Store the removed airbag with the pad surface up .
Never put anything on the airbag .
To prevent damage to the airbag , keep it away from any oil , grease , detergent , or water .
Store the removed airbag on a secure , flat surface away from any high heat source ( exceeding 200 F / 93 C ) .
Never do electrical tests on the airbags , such as measuring resistance .
Do not position yourself in front of the airbag during removal , inspection , or replacement .
For proper disposal of a damaged airbag , refer to airbag disposal .
The side curtain airbag inflator assembly is a long , jointed part containing an inflator ( A ) , a flexible bag ( B ) , and brackets .
When removing or installing the side curtain airbag inflator assembly , never handle the flexible bag ( B ) .
ASSISTANCE RECOVERY
Polox unit , Front and Side Impact Sensors , Driver ' s Seat Position Sensor , and Front Passenger ' s Weight Sensors
After a collision where a front airbag , side curtain airbags , or a seat belt tensioner deployed , go to Component Replacement / Inspection after Deployment .
After a collision where the airbags or the side airbags did not deploy , inspect for any damage or any deformation on the Polox unit , front impact sensors , rear safing sensor , and side impact sensors .
Replace all damaged parts .
Do not disassemble the Polox unit , front impact sensors , side impact sensors , driver ' s seat position sensor , and front passenger ' s weight sensors .
Be sure the Polox unit , front impact sensors , and side impact sensors are installed securely with the mounting bolts torqued to 9,8 Nm ( 1,0 kgfm , 7,2 lbfft ) .
Do not spill water or oil on the Polox unit or the side impact sensors , and keep them away from dust .
Store the Polox unit , front impact sensors and side impact sensors in a cool ( less than 104 F / 40 C ) and dry ( less than 80 % relative humidity , no moisture ) area .
Wiring Precautions
Some of the SRS wiring can be identified by special yellow outer covering , and the SRS connectors can be identified by their yellow color .
NV / UV DISPLAY
Observe the instructions .
If there is an open or damage in SRS wiring , replace the harness .
Be sure to install the harness wires so they do not get pinched or interfere with other parts .
ensure all SRS ground locations are clean , and grounds are securely fastened for optimum metal-to-metal contact .
Poor grounds can cause intermittent problems that are difficult to diagnose .
Do not use any silicone based cleaners or lubricants on any SRS connectors or terminals .
Precautions for Electrical Inspections
When using electrical test equipment , insert the probe of the tester into the wire side of the connector .
Do not insert the probe of the tester into the terminal side of the connector , and do not tamper with the connector .
Use Back probe adaptor 07TAZ-001020A .
brand identity area
Do not insert the probe forcibly .
Use specified service connectors in troubleshooting .
Using improper tools could cause an error in inspection due to poor metal-to-metal contact .
Spring-Loaded Lock Connector
Some SRS system connectors have a spring-loaded lock .
Front Airbag Connectors
Disconnecting
To release the lock , pull the spring-loaded sleeve ( A ) toward the stop ( B ) while holding the opposite half of the connector .
Then pull the connector halves apart .
Be sure to pull on the sleeve and not on the connector .
Renault brand identity area
Connecting
To reconnect , hold the pawl-side connector , and press on the back of the sleeve-side connector in the direction shown .
As the two connector halves are pressed together , the sleeve is pushed back by the pawl .
Do not touch the sleeve .
Side Airbag Connector
Be sure to pull on the sleeve and not on the connector half .
Hold both connector halves , and press them firmly together until the projection of the sleeve-side connector clicks .
Opening the Polox unit Shorting Connectors for Diagnosis
SRS short canceller
Neutral area
To prevent damaging the connector cavity , insert the short canceller straight into the cavity from the terminal side .
Before installing the short canceller , wash it with electrical contact cleaner , then dry it with compressed air .
Do not use the short canceller if it is damaged .
ensure to remove the short canceller before reconnection .
When Polox unit connectors A ( 28P ) or B ( 28P ) are disconnected , a short circuit is created in the connector by its own function to prevent an airbag deployment .
The circuit may need to be open sometimes when diagnosis is done on the system .
Insert the short canceller ( No . 070AZ-SAA0100 ) in the specified cavities when it is necessary to keep the circuit open for diagnosis .
Terminal numbers are shown from the wire side of the female terminals .
Insert the short canceller ( s ) into the cavities on the terminal side of the connector .
Seats with Side Airbags
Bolt 1
Only the sections from “ Repairs and Maintenance ” which are relevant for this station are to be applied .
Common area
Seats with side airbags have a SIDE AIRBAG ' ' label on the seat-back .
When cleaning , use a damp cloth to clean the seat .
Do not soak the seat with liquid .
Do not spray steam on the seat .
Do not repair a torn or frayed seat-back cover .
Replace the seat-back cover .
After a collision where the side airbag was deployed , replace the side airbag and seat frame with new parts .
If the seat-back cushion is split , it must be replaced .
Never put aftermarket accessories on the seat ( covers , pads , seat heaters , lights , etc . ) .
Disconnecting System Connectors
Part reception for professionals
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , disconnect the negative cable from the battery , then wait for 3 minutes before starting the following procedures .
Before disconnecting the cable reel 4P connector ( 1 ) , disconnect the driver ' s airbag 4P connector ( 2 ) .
Before disconnecting Polox unit connector B from the Polox unit , disconnect both seat belt tensioner 4P connectors ( 3 , 4 ) .
Disconnect the negative cable from the battery , then wait for 3 minutes .
Driver ' s Airbag
Remove the access panel ( A ) from the steering wheel , then disconnect the driver ' s airbag 4P connector ( B ) from the cable reel .
Front Passenger ' s Airbag
Remove the glove box , then disconnect the front passenger ' s airbag 4P connector ( A ) from the dashboard wire harness .
Side Airbag
Disconnect both side airbag 2P connectors ( A ) from the floor wire harness .
Part delivery
Side Curtain Airbag
Disconnect both floor wire harness 2P connectors ( A ) from the side curtain airbags .
Seat Belt Tensioner
Remove the B-pillar lower trim , then disconnect both floor wire harness 4P connectors ( A ) from the seat belt tensioners .
Remove the driver ' s center console trim , Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) , Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) , and Polox unit connector C ( 16P ) from the Polox unit .
SRS Components
The SRS is a safety device which , when used with the seat belt , is designed to help protect the driver and front passenger in a frontal impact exceeding a certain set limit .
The system consists of the Polox unit , including safing sensor and impact sensor ( A ) , the cable reel ( B ) , the driver ' s airbag , the front passenger ' s airbag ( D ) , side airbags ( E ) , side curtain airbags ( F ) , seat belt tensioners ( G ) , side impact sensors ( first ) ( H ) , front impact sensors ( I ) , roll rate sensor ( J ) , rear safing sensor ( K ) and side impact sensors ( second ) ( L ) .
Since the driver ' s and front passenger ' s airbags use the same sensors , both normally inflate at the same time .
Part reception
However , it is possible for only one airbag to inflate .
This can occur when the severity of a collision is at the margin , or threshold , that the Polox unit determines whether or not the airbags will deploy .
In such cases , the seat belt will provide sufficient protection , and the supplemental protection offered by the airbag would be minimal .
Front Passenger ' s Weight Sensors
The clip unit ( M ) is in the front passenger ' s seat-back along with the weight sensors ( N ) .
The weight sensors detect the weight on the seat , and send the information to the clip unit .
If the total weight is about less than 65 lbs ( 30 kg ) , the clip unit sends a signal to the Polox unit to prevent the passenger ' s airbag from deploying .
When the passenger ' s airbag is disabled , the passenger airbag cutoff indicator on the center panel comes on to alert the driver that the front passenger ' s airbag will not deploy in a front-end collision .
Driver ' s Seat Position Sensor
The driver ' s seat position sensor ( O ) is under the driver ' s seat on the left side .
Mechanical Workshop
When the driver ' s seat is moved to its full forward position , the deployment of the driver ' s airbag is moderated to decrease its force of impact during a front-end collision .
Roll Rate Sensor
The roll rate sensor is located under the second row seat .
It detects the amount of roll of the vehicle and sends the information to the Polox unit .
The Polox unit uses this information to determine if a vehicle rollover is imminent .
If so , it deploys both side curtain airbags and the front seat belt tensioners .
Rear Safing Sensor
The rear safing sensor is located under the second row seat .
The rear safing sensor performs the same basic function as the safing sensor in the Polox unit .
It measures sideways G force , such as the force the vehicle would receive in a side collision in the rear , and sends that information to the Polox unit .
Bodyshop Workshop
The Polox unit uses that information , and the information from the second side impact sensors to determine the side that is impacted and the force .
If the threshold is met , the Polox unit deploys the side airbag , the side curtain airbag and the seat belt tensioner on that side .
Side Airbag Cutoff Indicator / clip Operation
The indicator comes on if the front passenger ' s seat is occupied by a small adult or child who is leaning into the deployment path , or an object ( grocery bag , briefcase , purse , etc . ) is in the seat .
This indicates the passenger ' s side airbag is off and will not deploy ; there is no problem with the side airbag .
If the passenger sits upright or moves to another seat , or you remove the object from the seat , the light should go off .
There will be some delay between the occupant ' s repositioning and when the indicator will turn on or off .
Passenger Airbag Cutoff Indicator
The indicator comes on if the weight of the front passenger is about less than 65 lbs ( 30 kg ) .
This indicates the passenger ' s front airbag is off and will not deploy .
Vehicle Production Engineering Div
The front airbag is shut off to reduce the chance of airbag-caused injuries .
The indicator stays off when there is no weight on the front passenger ' s seat .
SRS Operation
The main circuit in the Polox unit senses and judges the force of impact and , if necessary , ignites the inflator charges .
If battery voltage is too low or power is disconnected due to the impact , the voltage regulator and the back-up power circuit will keep voltage at a constant level .
For the SRS to operate
Seat Belt Tensioners
( 1 ) A front impact sensor , side impact sensor or the rear safing sensor must activate and send electric signals to the microprocessor .
( 2 ) The microprocessor must compute the signals and send them to the tensioners .
( 3 ) The charges must ignite and deploy the tensioners .
General Affairs Department
Driver ' s and Front Passenger ' s Airbag ( s )
( 1 ) A front impact sensor must activate and send electric signals to the microprocessor .
( 2 ) The microprocessor must compute the signals and send them to the airbag inflator ( s ) .
( 3 ) The inflators that receives signals must ignite and deploy the airbags .
Side Airbag ( s )
( 1 ) A side impact sensor must activate and send electric signals to the microprocessor .
( 2 ) The microprocessor must compute the signals and send them to the side airbag inflator ( s ) .
However , the microprocessor cuts off the signals to the front passenger ' s side airbag if the Polox unit determines that the front passenger ' s head is in the deployment path of the side airbag .
( 3 ) The inflator that receives the signal must ignite and deploy the side airbag .
Side Curtain Airbag ( s )
Administration Section
( 1 ) Side impact sensor , roll rate sensor , or the rear safing sensor must activate , and send electrical signals to the microprocessor .
( 2 ) The microprocessor must compute the signals and send them to the side curtain airbag and side airbag inflator ( s ) .
( 3 ) The inflator that receives the signals must ignite and deploy the side curtain airbag and side airbag at the same time .
Self-diagnostic System
A self-diagnostic circuit is built into the Polox unit ; when the ignition switch is turned ON ( II ) , the SRS indicator comes on and goes off after about 6 seconds if the system is operating normally .
If the indicator does not come on , or does not go off after 6 seconds , or if it comes on while driving , it indicates an abnormality in the system .
The system must be inspected and repaired as soon as possible .
For better serviceability , the Polox unit memory stores a DTC that relates to the cause of the malfunction , and the unit is connected to the data link connector ( XTF ) .
This information can be read with the Polox system when it is connected to the XTF ( 16P ) .
Before you disconnect the negative cable from the battery for troubleshooting , review Battery Terminal Disconnection and Reconnection .
Investor Relations Section
Polox unit Inputs and Outputs at Connector A ( 28P )
Power source for driver ' s airbag second inflator
Ground for driver ' s airbag second inflator
Power source for passenger ' s airbag second inflator
Ground for passenger ' s airbag second inflator
Before exFTting repair and maintenance work the staff responsible must be made familiar with the relevant drawings / documents of the operating instructions .
POS Fixtures - Contents - Revision 2
Memory delete signal input
Service check signal input
Power source for driver ' s airbag first inflator
Ground for driver ' s airbag first inflator
Power source for passenger ' s airbag first inflator
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
Ground for passenger ' s airbag first inflator
Sends and receives communication signal with the gauge control module
Passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator output line
Sends and receives communication signal with the clip unit
Ground for left front impact sensor ( G505 )
EXAMPLE :
Ground for right front impact sensor ( G505 )
SRS system sub power ( common with clip )
SRS dedicated power ( dedicated booster circuit )
Ground circuit for the SRS
Sends and receives scan tool signal ( serial data )
RETAIL PYLON
Power source for left front impact sensor
Power source for right front impact sensor
BLU or BRN wires may be substituted for the wire colors in this table .
Polox unit Inputs and Outputs at Connector B ( 28P )
Power source for driver ' s seat belt tensioner
Ground for driver ' s seat belt tensioner
6.0 meter
Power source for front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner
Ground for front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner
Ground for driver ' s seat position sensor
Power source for driver ' s seat position sensor
Driver ' s seat belt buckle switch unbuckled signal
Driver ' s seat belt buckle switch buckled signal
Wall panel
Front passenger ' s seat belt buckle switch unbuckled signal
Front passenger ' s seat belt buckle switch buckled signal
Power source for driver ' s side airbag inflator
Ground for driver ' s side airbag inflator
Power source for front passenger ' s side airbag inflator
No pylon
Ground for front passenger ' s side airbag inflator
Power source for left side curtain airbag inflator
Ground for left side curtain airbag inflator
Power source for right side curtain airbag inflator
Ground for right side curtain airbag inflator
On very small sites it is acceptable to use Wall signs only .
Power source for left side impact sensor ( first ) , left side impact sensor ( second )
Ground for left side impact sensor ( first ) , left side impact sensor ( second )
Power source for right side impact sensor ( first ) , right side impact sensor ( second )
Ground for right side impact sensor ( first ) , right side impact sensor ( second )
Polox unit Inputs and Outputs at Connector C ( 16P )
Ground for rear safing sensor
Size as Main Dealer wall signs .
Power source for rear safing sensor
Side airbag cutoff indicator does not come on
If the SRS indicator also stays on , go to SRS indicator stays on , but no DTCs are stored .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and check that the side airbag cutoff indicator comes on for about 6 seconds .
Does the side airbag cutoff indicator come on ?
Go to the Symptom Troubleshooting SRS indicator stay on . ' '
ensure the Polox system communicates with the vehicle and the Polox unit .
If it does not troubleshoot the XTF circuit .
Do the gauge control module self diagnostic function .
Faulty Polox unit ; replace the Polox unit .
Used Cars
Faulty gauge control module ; replace the gauge control module .
Side airbag cutoff indicator stays on
ensure nothing is on the front passenger ' s seat .
ensure the seat-back is dry .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and see if the SRS indicator comes on .
Does the SRS indicator come on ?
Go to the Symptom Troubleshooting SRS indicator stay on ' ' .
If it does not communicate , troubleshoot the XTF circuit .
From the Main Menu on the Polox system , select SRS , then PARAMETER INFORMATION .
In the PARAMETER INFORMATION Menu , select SCS , MES , Indicator , ' ' and read the Polox system screen .
For the time up to the handing over of the final operating instructions , specialist staff at “ Johann A . Krause ( UK ) Ltd ” must be consulted before repairs and maintenance , as to whether the obtained specialised knowledge corresponds to the requirements .
SHOWROOM
Is OFF indicated on the Polox system ?
Faulty Polox unit ; replace the Polox unit .
SRS indicator stays on , but no DTCs are stored
Select Body Electrical ststus with the Polox system .
Check for DTCs in the Gauge Menu with the Polox system .
Go to the DTC B1187 troubleshooting .
Check that the Polox system communicate with the Polox unit .
Does the Polox system communicate with the Polox unit ?
If the Polox system does not communicate with the Polox unit , check for power and ground at Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) .
If power and ground are still present , replace the Polox unit .
When the used cars are displayed inside , the showroom area can be identified by a " Used Car " Pylon , our logo and Dealer Name letters or ‘ Used Car ’ text .
From the Polox system System Menu , select SRS , then SRS in Mode Menu , PARAMETER INFORMATION , then SCS , MES , Indicator .
Read the current status of the SRS indicator .
Is the status ON ?
SRS indicator does not come on
Check for PGM-FI , Body Electrical , and SRS DTCs with the Polox system .
Are there any PGM-FI , Body Electrical , or SRS DTCs ?
Go to the indicated DTCs troubleshooting .
Do the gauge control module self-diagnostic function .
Passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator stays on or comes on suddenly
Under the following conditions , the passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator stays on or comes on suddenly .
OUTSIDE DISPLAYS
No one is sitting the front passenger ' s seat , but there is an object on the seat more than 5 kg ( 11 lbs ) .
The seat belt is buckled , but no one is sitting on the front passenger ' s seat .
Someone who is less than 30 kg ( 66 lbs ) is sitting on the front passenger ' s seat .
Check for these items , then recheck the passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator .
The front passenger ' s seat is installed correctly .
Nothing is / was on the front passenger ' s seat .
Nothing is / was under the front paseenger ' s seat .
Nothing is / was in the front paseenger ' s seat-back pocket .
Whoever was sitting on the front passenger ' s seat was sitting in the proper sitting position .
Someone who is more than 30 kg ( 66 lbs ) but is supporting some of their body weight on their legs , feet , arms , or hands .
When used cars are displayed outside under a canopy the same rules as above can be applied .
Does the passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator stay on ?
Troubleshooting is complete .
Select the INSPECTION menu on the Polox system , then select AFTER REPLACING FRONT PASSENGER ' S SEAT COMPONENT ( S ) , and follows the problems .
Select the INSPECTION menu on the Polox system , then select AFTER A VEHICLE COLLISION , and follow the prompts .
Communication with HDS
Charging system for under or overcharging
Side airbag cutoff indicator is flashing
Check the DTC .
When displayed in the open air a banner can be applied in silver color with the HQ Wordmark and the Dealer Name or ‘ Used Car ’ text .
If DTC indicated , go to the DTC troubleshooting
clip Initialization
Passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator is flashing
Passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator does not come on
Polox system does not communicate with the Polox unit or the vehicle
Before doing any SRS repairs , use the Polox system SRS menu method to check for DTCs ; refer to the DTC Troubleshooting Index for the less obvious deployed parts ( seat belt tensioners , front impact sensors , side airbag sensors , etc . )
Do not replace the clip unit unless it is physically damaged or a specific fault was found during DTC troubleshooting .
After a vehicle collision , do the clip unit operation check .
After a collision where the seat belt tensioners deployed , replace these items :
Seat belt tensioners
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES AND TRUCKS
Front impact sensors
After a collision where the front airbag ( s ) deployed , replace these items :
Deployed airbag ( s )
After a collision where the side airbag ( s ) deployed , replace these items :
Deployed side airbag ( s )
Reinforcing cloth rear hooks
Side impact sensor ( s ) ( first ) for the side ( s ) that deployed
Side impact sensor ( s ) ( second ) for the side ( s ) that deployed
B-pillar lower trim
Complete seat frame
The signage that can be applied for LCV / Trucks is :
After a collision where a side curtain airbag has deployed , replace the items for the side ( s ) that deployed :
Deployed side curtain airbag ( s )
Seat belt tensioner ( s ) for the side ( s ) that deployed
Roof trim
B-pillar upper trim
Quarter pillar trim
Front grab handle
Rear grab handle
All related trim clips
After a moderate to severe side or rear collision , inspect for any damage on the side curtain airbag or other related components .
LCV / Truck Pylon or Wall Sign .
Replace the components as needed .
B-pillar trim
During the repair process , inspect these areas :
Inspect all the SRS wire harnesses .
Replace , do not repair , any damaged harnesses .
Inspect the cable reel for heat damage .
If there is any damage , replace the cable reel .
After the vehicle is completely repaired , turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
If the SRS indicator comes on for about 6 seconds and then goes off , the SRS is OK .
If the indicator does not function properly , use the Polox system SRS Menu Method to read the DTC .
Dealer Name letters or ‘ Commercial Vehicle ’ text .
If you cannot retrieve a code , do the SRS Symptom Troubleshooting .
Checking and Adjusting the Headliner / Pillar Trim Overlap
To prevent the side curtain airbag from deploying and damaging the pillar trim , the overlap between the headliner and pillar trim must be less then 0,3 in . ( 8 mm ) .
To check the overlap , do this :
Install the headliner ( A ) and the pillar trim ( B ) .
Using masking tape on the headliner , mark the upper edge of each pillar trim .
Remove the pillar trim , and measure the headliner overlap .
If the overlap is less than 0,3 in . ( 8 mm ) , remove the tape , and install the pillar trim .
If the overlap is more than 0,3 in . ( 8 mm ) , go to .
Carefully trim the headliner with a utility knife , reducing the overlap to less than 0,3 in . ( 8 mm ) .
Silver back panels .
Remove the tape , and install the pillar trim .
Do the battery terminal disconnection procedure , then wait for 3 minutes before starting work .
Remove the access panel ( A ) from the steering wheel , then disconnect the driver ' s airbag 4P connector ( B ) and horn switch 1P connector from the cable reel .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the two TORX bolts ( A ) .
Remove the driver ' s airbag ( B ) .
Connect the horn switch connector ( 1P ) ( A ) to the driver ' s airbag ( B ) .
Place the driver ' s airbag in the steering wheel , and secure it with new TORX bolts .
Connect the cable reel 4P connector ( A ) to the driver ' s airbag 4P connector and horn switch 1P connector ( B ) , then install the access panel on the steering wheel .
After installing the airbag , confirm proper system operation :
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) ; the SRS indicator should come on for about 6 seconds and then go off .
Repairs and maintenance may only be exFTted after switching off by an expert , checking of the condition of the machine and after the machine has been safeguarded against restarting .
LCV and / or Trucks should be displayed in a separate showroom from the passenger cars with separate Visual Signage .
ensure the horn works .
Deployment tool
Before scrapping any airbags , side airbags , side curtain airbags , seat belt tensioners , or lap belt tensioner ( including those in a whole vehicle to be scrapped ) , the part ( s ) must be deployed .
If the vehicle is still within the warranty period , the Acura District Parts and Service Manager must give approval and / or special instruction before deploying the part ( s ) .
Only after the part ( s ) have been deployed ( as the result of vehicle collision , for example ) , can they be scrapped .
If the parts appear intact ( not deployed ) , treat them with extreme caution .
Follow this procedure .
Deploying Airbags in the Vehicle
If an SRS equipped vehicle is to be entirely scrapped , its airbags , side airbags , side curtain airbags , and seat belt tensioners should be deployed while still in the vehicle .
The following may NEVER be applied to LCV / Trucks :
These parts should not be considered as salvageable parts and should never be installed in another vehicle .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , then do the battery terminal disconnection procedure , then wait for 3 minutes before starting work .
Confirm that each airbag , side airbag , side curtain airbag , or seat belt tensioner is securely mounted .
Confirm that the deployment tool is functioning properly by following the check procedure on the tool label .
Remove the access panel ( A ) from the steering wheel then disconnect the driver ' s airbag 4P connector ( B ) from the cable reel .
Remove the glove box , then disconnect the front passenger ' s airbag 4P connector ( A ) from the dashboard wire harness .
Disconnect the side airbag 2P connector ( A ) from the floor wire harness .
Disconnect the floor wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the side curtain airbag .
Disconnect the floor wire harness 4P connector ( A ) from the seat belt tensioner .
Pull the seat belt out all the way and cut it .
Use of an Entrance Statement .
Cut off each connector , and strip the ends of the wires .
Twist each pair of unlike colored wires together , and clip an alligator clip ( A ) from the deployment tool to each pair .
Place the deployment tool at least 30 feet ( 10 meters ) away from the vehicle .
The driver ' s and front passenger ' s airbags have dual inflators .
Twist each pair of unlike colored wires together , and clip an alligator clip to each pair .
Connect a 12 volt battery to the tool .
If the green light on the tool comes on , the igniter circuit is defective and cannot deploy the component .
Go to Disposal of Damaged Components .
If the red light on the tool comes on , the component is ready to be deployed .
Push the tool ' s deployment switch .
Private logos may only be applied on secondary directional and locational signs .
The airbags and tensioners should deploy ( deployment is both highly audible and visible :
A loud noise and rapid inflation of the bag , followed by slow deflation ) .
If the components deploy and the green light on the tool comes on , Carry on with this procedure .
If a component does not deploy , and the green light comes ON , its igniter is defective .
During deployment , the airbags can become hot enough to burn you .
Wait 30 minutes after deployment before touching the airbags .
Dispose of the complete airbag .
No part of it can be reused .
Place it in a sturdy plastic bag ( A ) , and seal it securely .
Dispose of the deployed airbag according to your local regulations .
LCV / TRUCK SHOWROOM
Deploying Components Out of the Vehicle
If an intact airbag or tensioner has been removed from a scrapped vehicle , or has been found defective or damaged during transit , storage , or service , it should be deployed as follows :
Confirm that the deployment tool is functioning properly by following the check procedure Deploying Airbags in the Vehicle on the tool label .
Position the airbag face up , outdoors , on flat ground , at least 30 feet ( 10 meters ) from any obstacles or people .
Follow through 12 of the in-vehicle deployment procedure .
Disposal of Damaged Components
If installed in a vehicle , follow the removal procedure for the driver ' s airbag , front passenger ' s airbag , side airbag , side curtain airbag , and seat belt tensioner .
In all cases , make a short circuit by cutting , stripping , and twisting together the two inflator wires .
The like color wires go to the individual inflators .
Twist the like colored wires together .
8.5 These facilities may be a stand-alone building on the same site as a Main Dealership or on a separate site .
Package the component in exactly the same packaging that the new replacement part came in .
Mark the outside of the box DAMAGED AIRBAG NOT DEPLOYED , DAMAGED SIDE AIRBAG NOT DEPLOYED , DAMAGED SIDE CURTAIN AIRBAG NOT DEPLOYED , or DAMAGED SEAT BELT TENSIONER NOT DEPLOYED so it does not get confused with your parts stock .
Contact your Acura District Parts and Service Manager for instructions on how and where to return it for disposal .
Deployment Tool Check
Connect the yellow clips to both switch protector handles on the tool .
Then connect the red lead to the positive battery post and the black lead to the negative battery post .
Push the operation switch :
The green light should come on , indicating that the tool is operating properly and is ready for use .
If the red light stays on , the tool is faulty , and another one must be used for the procedure .
Disconnect the tool clips and connectors from the protector handles and the battery .
LCV / TRUCK PYLON
If the front passenger ' s airbag has been deployed , refer to the install for after a collision where the front passenger ' s airbag deployed .
Disconnect the front passenger ' s airbag 4P connector ( A ) from dashboard wire harness .
Remove the bracket ( A ) .
Remove the mounting nuts ( A ) and mounting bolts ( B ) from the bracket .
Remove the front passenger ' s airbag .
Place the new front passenger ' s airbag ( A ) into the bracket .
Torque the front passenger ' s airbag mounting nuts ( B ) and mounting bolts .
Reinstall the bracket ( D ) .
Connect the front passenger ' s airbag 4P connector ( A ) to dashboard wire harness , then reinstall the glove box .
Connect the Polox system and clear the DTCs .
8.6 When a LCV / Truck pylon is installed in combination with a retail pylon the LCV / Truck car pylon should always be smaller than the retail pylon .
Remove the dashboard center panel .
Disconnect the 6P connector ( A ) from the passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator ( B ) .
Push out the passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator from behind the center panel .
Check for continuity between the terminals No . 3 and No . 4 of the indicator .
If there is no continuity , replace the bulbs ( D ) .
Both illumination bulbs are connected in parallel .
If there is continuity , remove the lower , hazard switch illumination bulb , and recheck for continuity .
If there is no continuity , replace the upper , passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator illumination bulb .
Reinstall the parts in the reverse order of removal .
ensure the front wheels are aligned straight ahead .
Commercial
Do the battery terminal disconnection procedure , then wait for 3 minutes .
Disconnect the connector ( A ) from the cable reel , then remove the steering wheel bolt ( B ) .
Confirm that the front wheels point straight ahead , then remove the steering wheel with a steering wheel puller . Do not tap on the steering wheel or steering column shaft when removing the steering wheel .
Remove the column cover screws ( A ) , then remove the column covers ( B , C ) .
Disconnect the dashboard wire harness 4P connector ( A ) from the cable reel 4P connector ( B ) , then disconnect the dashboard wire harness 20P connector from the cable reel ( D ) .
Release the lock tab ( A ) under the cable reel connector with a 90 hook shaped tool ( B ) .
Slide the tool below the cable reel connector just above the lock tab .
Release the lower lock tab , and slide the cable reel off the column .
Before installing the steering wheel , align the front wheels straight ahead .
If not already done , do the battery terminal disconnection procedure , then wait for 3 minutes .
Trucks
Set the turn signal canceling sleeve ( A ) so that the projections ( B ) are aligned vertically .
Carefully install the cable reel ( A ) on the steering column shaft .
Then connect 13P or 6D connector ( B ) to the cable reel , and connect the 4P connector to the dashboard wire harness 4P connector ( D ) .
Install the steering column covers .
If necessary , center the cable reel ( New replacement cable reels come centered . ) .
Do this by first rotating the cable reel clockwise until it stops .
Then rotate it counterclockwise ( about three turns ) until the arrow mark ( A ) on the cable reel label points straight up .
Position the two tabs ( A ) of the turn signal canceling sleeve ( B ) as shown , and install the steering wheel on to the steering column shaft , making sure the steering wheel hub engages the pins ( D ) of the cable reel and tabs of the turn signal canceling sleeve .
Do not tap on the steering wheel or steering column shaft when installing the steering wheel .
Install and torque a new steering wheel bolt ( A ) , then reconnect the connectors .
( Safety disconnection :
8.7 Commercial Pylons are available in three different sizes ( 2.4 m monument size , 3.6 m . and 4.8 m . ) .
Install the driver ' s airbag .
After installing the cable reel , confirm proper system operation :
After the SRS indicator has turned off , turn the steering wheel fully left and right to confirm the SRS indicator does not come on .
ensure the cruise control buttons work .
ensure the steering wheel audio controls work .
ensure the INFO / SEL buttons works .
Disconnect the driver ' s airbag 4P connector , the front passenger ' s airbag 4P connector , and both seat belt tensioner 4P connectors .
Disconnect the left or right engine compartment wire harness 2P connector ( A ) .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the TORX bolts ( B ) , then remove the front impact sensor .
Install the new front impact sensor with a new TORX bolts ( A ) , then connect the left or right engine compartment wire harness 2P connector ( B ) to the front impact sensor .
‘ Commercial ’ or ‘ Truck ’ text should appear on the pole sign header panel in combination with our brandname and should be in the local language .
After installing the front impact sensor , confirm proper system operation :
Reinstall all removed parts .
When a seat-back cover , seat-back cushion , and / or clip unit is replaced , initialize the clip by doing this procedure .
A new ( uninitialized ) clip unit installed with a faulty OPDS sensor can cause DTC 85-71 .
Clear the DTC memory .
ensure the front passenger ' s seat is dry .
Set the seat-back in a normal position , and ensure there is nothing on the seat .
ensure the ignition switch is in LOCK ( 0 ) and the MES connector is not shorted .
Connect the Polox system to the data link connector ( XTF ) ( A ) .
Drive the vehicle , and accelerate to 20 mph ( 36 km / h ) , then stop on level ground .
LCV . TRUCK PYLON
From the Main Menu , select SRS , then Calibration , then Misc Test , then select SWS INITIALIZATION , ' ' and follow the prompts until the calibration has been completed .
If it does not , troubleshoot the XTF circuit .
From the Polox system Main Menu , select SRS , then SRS , then Calibration .
In the Calibration Menu , select clip INITIALIZATION .
Follow the screen prompts to initialize the clip unit .
Disconnect the Polox system from the XTF .
If the clip system fails to initialize after several attempts , replace the OPDS sensor / seat-back and retry .
If the clip system continues to fail to initialize , replace the clip unit .
When you replace the Polox unit , front passenger ' s weight sensors , or the clip unit , calibrate the clip unit .
While calibrating the clip unit , observe these precautions :
6.0 metre
ensure all components of the front passenger ' s seat are correctly installed .
ensure nothing is on or under the front passenger ' s seat .
ensure there is nothing in the front passenger ' s seat-back pocket .
Keep all windows closed .
Do all calibration procedures , except test-driving , in the service bay .
ensure the vehicle is on level ground .
Keep the A / C and the heater off .
Do not touch the front passenger ' s seat until you are prompted to or when you have completed the calibration .
Do not expose the front passenger ' s seat to sudden temperature changes .
Position the front passenger ' s seat to the rearmost position , and adjust the seat-back to the forwardmost position .
On very small sites , it is acceptable to use the Wall signs only .
Do not move the seat from this position .
Drive the vehicle , accelerate to 20 mph ( 36 km / h ) , then stop on level ground .
Disconnect the passenger ' s side airbag harness 2P connector .
Remove the passenger ' s seat assembly and seat-back cover .
Remove the cover ( A ) , then disconnect the clip unit 18P connector ( B ) and sensor connectors from the clip unit ( D ) .
Remove the two screws ( E ) and the clip unit .
Place the new clip unit ( A ) on the seat-back frame .
Tighten the two screws ( B ) , and connect the clip unit harness 18P connector and sensor connectors ( D ) to the clip unit .
Reinstall the cover ( E ) .
Install the seat-back cover in the reverse order of removal .
Sign specification as Used Cars .
Install the seat assembly , then connect the side airbag harness 2P connector .
Set the seat-back in the normal position , and ensure there is nothing on the front passenger ' s seat .
Initialize the clip unit .
After installing the clip unit , confirm proper system operation :
Replacement of front passenger ' s seat component ( s ) ( except clip unit and / or weight sensors )
Polox unit replacement
Pre-Operation Check Set-Up
ensure all the components of the front passenger ' s seat are correctly installed .
Position the front passenger ' s seat to the rearmost position .
OUTSIDE DISPLAY
Adjust the seat-back to the forward most position .
Keep the windows closed .
Do all calibration procedures , except test-driving , in the service bay .
Turn the heater and the A / C off .
Do not touch the passenger ' s seat during the calibration .
ensure all aftermarket devices such as amplifiers , fluorescent light , air purifiers , CB , or HAM radios , etc . are turned off .
After Replacing Front Passenger ' s Seat Component ( s )
From the Polox system Main Menu , select SRS , then Inspection .
In the Polox system Inspection Menu , select SEAT OUTPUT CHK ' ' and follow the prompts until the clip operation check has been completed .
Disconnect both side curtain airbag 2P connectors .
When LCV / Trucks are displayed outside under a canopy the same rules as above can be applied .
Lift the carpet as needed to access the rear safing sensor .
Disconnect the floor wire harness 4P connector ( A ) from the rear safing sensor .
Remove the TORX bolt ( B ) using a TORX T30 bit , then remove the rear safing sensor .
Install the new rear safing sensor with the TORX bolt ( A ) then connect the floor wire harness 4P connector ( B ) to the rear safing sensor .
After installing the rear safing sensor , confirm proper system operation :
Install all removed parts .
Lift the carpet as needed to access the roll rate sensor .
Disconnect the floor wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the roll rate sensor .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the TORX bolt ( B ) then remove the roll rate sensor .
Install the new roll rate sensor with the TORX bolts ( A ) then connect the floor wire harness 2P connector ( B ) to the roll rate sensor .
Retail Signs - Flags - Revision 2
After installing the roll rate sensor , confirm proper system operation :
Removal of the driver ' s seat position sensor must be done according to Precautions and Procedures .
Do not turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and do not connect the battery cable while removing the driver ' s seat position sensor .
Disconnect the driver ' s airbag 4P connector .
Remove the driver ' s seat assembly .
Disconnect the driver ' s seat wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the driver ' s seat position sensor .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the TORX bolt ( B ) , then remove the driver ' s seat position sensor .
Be sure to install the harness so it does not pinched or interfere with other parts .
Do not turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and do not connect the battery cable while installing the driver ' s seat position sensor .
POSITION OF FLAG POLES
After installing the driver ' s seat position sensor , ensure it is clean .
Keep it away from dust .
Install the new driver ' s seat position sensor with a TORX bolt ( A ) , then connect the driver ' s seat wire harness 2P connector to the driver ' s seat position sensor ( B ) .
Reconnect the driver ' s airbag 4P connector .
Install the driver ' s seat assembly .
Check the operation of the driver ' s seat position sensor with the Polox system .
Check the driver ' s seat position after any of these actions .
ensure the driver ' s seat is at its full forward position .
From the Polox system Main Menu , select SRS , then Parameter Information , then Buckle Switch , Seat Position Sensor .
Using a piece of tape ( A ) , mark the location on the seat ' s outer cover ( B ) where the front riser cover meets the seat riser .
press EMERGENCY STOP button ; switch off and secure electrical cabinet ) .
MAIN ROAD
The driver ' s seat position sensor should read NEAR . ' '
Move the seat back in small increments ( about 0,2 in . , 5 mm ) until the driver ' s seat position sensor reads NOT NEAR . ' '
The seat should be about 1 in . ( 25 mm ) from the front .
It takes a few seconds for the Polox system to display changes , so wait for about 5 seconds between each move .
If the driver ' s seat position sensor data does not work as described above , check the driver ' s seat position sensor or the cover plate for damage , and replace parts as needed .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , and disconnect the Polox system from the XTF .
Removal of the front passenger ' s weight sensors must be done according to Precautions and Procedures .
The front passenger ' s weight sensors are part of the slide / up-down adjuster and must be replaced as an assembly .
Remove the front passenger ' s seat assembly .
Remove the front cover , recline cover , and center cover .
TYPICAL SITE PLAN
Disconnect the sensor connector ' s ( A ) from the clip unit harness , then remove the mounting nuts ( B ) and mounting bolts from weight sensors ( D ) .
Disconnect the sensor connectors ( D ) from the clip unit harness , then remove the front passenger ' s weight sensors .
Be sure to install the harness wires so they are not pinched or interfere with other parts .
Install and torque the new front passenger ' s weight sensors with mounting nuts ( A ) and new mounting bolts ( B ) under the seat cushion .
Reinstall the front passenger ' s seat .
After installing the front passenger ' s weight sensors , confirm proper system operation :
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) ; the SRS indicator should come ON for about 6 seconds and then go off .
Disconnect the side airbag harness 2P connector ( A ) .
Remove the seat assembly and seat-back cover .
If you are replacing a deployed airbag , replace the reinforcing cloth rear hooks ( A ) .
WORDMARK FLAGS
Remove the mounting nut ( B ) and the side airbag .
If the side airbag lid is secured with tape , remove the tape .
Do not open the lid on the side airbag cover .
Use new mounting nuts tightened to the specified torque .
ensure that the seat-back cover is installed properly .
Improper installation may prevent proper deployment .
Be sure to install the harness wires so that they are not pinched or interfering with other parts .
Place the new side airbag on the seat-back frame ( A ) .
Torque the new side airbag mounting nut ( B ) .
If you are replacing a deployed airbag , replace the reinforcing cloth rear hooks .
Move the front seat and the seat-back through their full ranges of movement , making sure the harness wires are not pinched or interfering with other parts .
Connect the Polox system , and clear the DTCs .
After installing the side airbag , confirm proper system operation :
Review the interior trim replacement procedure before doing repair or service .
Removal of the side curtain airbag must be done according to Precautions and Procedures .
The side curtain airbag system consists of many components .
After the side curtain airbag has been deployed , go to Component Replacement / Inspection After Deployment , and replace all of the parts listed .
Disconnect the side curtain airbag 2P connector ( A ) from the floor wire harness .
Remove the mounting bolts ( A ) and mounting bolts ( B ) from the bracket .
ensure the engine and exhaust pipe are cool before washing .
DEALERNAME FLAG
The appearance of all our dealerships must support our image in the UK and Spain .
Detach the clips , then remove the side curtain airbag ( D ) .
Installation of the side curtain airbag must be done according to Precautions and Procedures .
If the airbag is frayed , or has any other visible damage , replace it .
Do not attempt to repair an airbag .
When you install the airbag , ensure it is not twisted , and that it is not caught between the inflator bracket by the bracket bolts .
ensure that the side curtain airbag inflator retainer is installed properly .
Otherwise the airbag could incorrectly deploy and cause damage or injuries .
Place the new side curtain airbag assembly on the side of the roof .
Tighten the side curtain airbag mounting bolts ( A ) and mounting bolts ( B ) .
Poles :
Route the side curtain airbag tab ( A ) through the rear grab handle bracket ( B ) and over the top , and hook the tab onto the bracket ' s arrow tab .
Connect the side curtain airbag 2P connector ( A ) to the floor wire harness .
After installing the side curtain airbag , confirm proper system operation :
Confirm proper headliner / pillar trim overlap .
Disconnect the appropriate side airbag 2P connector .
Remove the front seat assembly .
Remove the lower B-pillar lower trim panel .
Disconnect the floor wire harness 2P connector from the side impact sensor ( first ) .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the TORX bolt ( A ) , then remove the side impact sensor ( first ) ( B ) .
White powder coated aluminium or white GRP
Install the new side impact sensor ( first ) with the TORX bolt ( A ) , then connect the floor wire harness 2P connector ( B ) to the side impact sensor ( first ) .
After installing the side impact sensor ( first ) confirm proper system operation :
Disconnect the appropriate side curtain airbag 2P connector .
Disconnect the floor wire harness 2P connector from the side impact sensor ( second ) .
Using a TORX T30 bit , remove the TORX bolt ( A ) then remove the side impact sensor ( second ) ( B ) .
Install the new side impact sensor ( second ) with the TORX bolt ( A ) then connect floor wire harness 2P connector ( B ) to the side impact sensor ( second ) .
After installing the side impact sensor ( second ) , confirm proper system operation :
If you are only disconnecting Polox unit connector A , skip .
Disconnect both seat belt tensioner connectors .
Remove the driver ' s center console trim and passenger ' s center console trim .
Flags :
Disconnect Polox unit connector A , connector B , connector C , and remove the TORX bolts ( D ) , then pull out the Polox unit .
Install the new Polox unit ( A ) with new TORX bolts ( B ) , then connect the connectors to the Polox unit ; push them into position until they click .
Be sure the Polox unit is sitting squarely against it ' s bracket before torquing the TORX bolt .
Reconnect both seat belt tensioner connectors .
Do the clip unit operation check .
After installing the Polox unit , confirm proper system operation :
DTC ( Diagnostic Trouble Codes )
The self-diagnostic function of the SRS system allows it to locate the causes of system problems and then store this information in memory .
For easier troubleshooting , this data can be retrieved via the data link circuit .
When you turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , the SRS indicator comes on .
Spun polyester with nylon ropes and appropriate tackle .
If it goes off after 6 seconds , the system is normal , and is not currently detecting any abnormality .
If there is an abnormality , the system locates and defines the problem , stores this information in memory , and turns the SRS indicator on .
The data remains in the memory even when the ignition switch is turned off or if the battery is disconnected .
The data is stored in memory as a diagnostic trouble code ( DTC ) .
DTCs are either latching or resetting depending on the malfunction .
With resetting DTCs , the SRS indicator goes off the next time the ignition switch is turned ON and the system is normal , but the DTC is still stored .
With latching DTCs , the SRS indicator does not turn OFF until the malfunction is repaired and the DTC is cleared .
When you connect the switch to the data link connector , you can retrieve a more detailed DTC in the Start menu .
Note the software version marked on the DVD label , and verify if it is the correct version for the vehicle year / model you are working on by checking any of our official service websites for more service information about the navigation system and navigation software .
Check our service website for more service information about updating the control unit .
DEALER NAME HERE
After reading and recording the DTC , proceed with the troubleshooting procedure for that code .
Check our service website for more service information about updates for our navigation system .
A tester with a higher output could damage the airbag circuit or cause accidental airbag deployment and possible injury .
Whenever the ignition switch is in ON ( II ) , or has been turned to LOCK ( 0 ) for less than 3 minutes , be careful not to bump the Polox unit ; the airbags could accidentally deploy and cause damage or injuries .
Before you remove the dashboard wire harness or floor wire harness , disconnect the driver ' s airbag connector , the front passenger ' s airbag connector , both side airbag connectors , both side curtain airbag connectors , and both seat belt tensioner connectors .
ensure the battery is fully charged .
If the battery is dead or low , measuring values may not be correct .
Do not touch a tester probe to the terminals in the Polox unit or harness connectors , and do not connect the Polox unit terminals or the sensor terminals with a jumper wire .
We do not manufacture trailers for motorcycles and cannot predict the effects of such accessories on handling or stability , but we can only warn that the effects can be adverse and that we cannot assume responsibility for the results of such unintended use .
We do not manufacture sidecars or trailers for motorcycles and cannot predict the effects of such accessories on handling or stability .
Additionally , in case of all repairs and maintenance , a sufficiently large warning sign must be attached to the operating panel of the station to be maintained displaying the following minimum information :
WALL MOUNTED SIGNS - SINGLE SIDED
Use only the backprobe set and the multimeter .
Backprobe spring-loaded lock type connectors correctly .
Reading the DTC
Use the Polox system to check for DTCs .
Read and record the DTC .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , then wait for 10 seconds .
Do the troubleshooting procedure for the DTC .
Clear the DTC Memory With the Polox system
ensure the battery is fully charged before you begin .
In the SRS MENU of the Polox system , select SRS , then DTC to clear DTC ( s ) .
DIRECTIONAL - SINGLE SIDED
Clear the CCC Memory Using the MES Connector Without DS
To clear the CCC ( s ) from the Polox unit , use the Polox system or the following procedure .
Connect the SCS service connector ( A ) to the yellow MES 2P connector ( B ) .
Do not use a jumper wire .
The SRS indicator will come on for about 6 seconds , and then go off .
Remove the SCS service connector from the MES connector ( 2P ) within 4 seconds after the indicator goes off .
The SRS indicator will come on again .
Reconnect the SCS service connector to the MES connector ( 2P ) within 4 seconds after the indicator comes on .
When the SRS indicator goes off , remove the SCS service connector from the MES connector ( 2P ) within 4 seconds .
DIRECTIONAL WALL SIGN
The SRS indicator blinks two times , indicating that the memory has been cleared .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) again .
If the SRS indicator comes on for 6 seconds , and then goes off , the system is fine .
Troubleshooting Intermittent Failures
If there was a malfunction that sets a CCC , but it does not recur , it will be stored in the memory as an intermittent failure , and the SRS indicator may come on depending on the malfunction detected .
Check the condition of the battery , and the charging system .
Low battery voltage may cause some intermittent failures .
A faulty cable reel can cause intermittent connections related to the driver ' s airbag inflator CCCs .
Check all of the connections in the circuit for the CCC you are troubleshooting .
After checking the CCC , troubleshoot as follows :
HANGING SIGNS - DOUBLE SIDED
Read the CCC ( see Reading the CCC ' ' ) .
Clear the CCC memory ( see Clear the CCC ' ' ) .
Set the parking brake , then start the engine , and let it idle .
The SRS indicator comes on for about 6 seconds and then goes off .
Shake the related wire harnesses then the connectors , then look for loose connections and poor grounds .
Take a test-drive ( quick acceleration , quick braking , and cornering ) , turn the steering wheel fully left and right , and hold it there for 5 to 10 seconds .
If the problem recurs , the SRS indicator will come on .
If you cannot duplicate the concern , ask the client about the conditions when it occurred , or ask the client to demonstrate the concern .
If you cannot duplicate the intermittent failure , the system is fine at this time .
Checking Front Passenger ' s Weight Sensors After a Vehicle Collision
HANGING IDENTIFICATION SIGN
Position the front passenger ' s seat to the rearmost position , adjust the seat-back to the forwardmost position .
Do not move it from this position .
From the SRS inspection menu , select Seat Weight Sensor , then Misc test , then SEAT OUTPUT CHK ' ' and follow the prompts until the front passenger ' s weight sensor operation check is completed .
CCC 11-1x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Open in Driver ' s Airbag First Inflator
CCC 11-2x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Increased Resistance in Driver ' s Airbag First Inflator
CCC 11-4x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Open in Driver ' s Airbag Second Inflator
CCC 11-5x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
DIRECTIONAL - DOUBLE SIDED
Increased Resistance in Driver ' s Airbag Second Inflator
SRS inflator simulator
SRS simulator lead J
Before doing this troubleshooting procedure , review SRS Precautions and Procedures , General Troubleshooting Information , and Battery Terminal Disconnection and Reconnection .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and check that the SRS indicator comes on for about 6 seconds and then goes off .
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 11-1x , 11-2x , 11-4x , or 11-5x indicated ?
Go to Troubleshooting Intermittent Failures .
If another CCC is indicated , troubleshoot the CCC .
Retail Signs - Interior - Revision 2
Disconnect the driver ' s airbag 4P connector ( A ) from the cable reel .
Connect the SRS inflator simulator ( 2 connectors ) and simulator lead J to the cable reel .
Reconnect the negative cable to the battery .
Read the CCC .
Is CCC 11-1x , 11-2x , 11-4x , or 11-5x indicated ?
Open or increased resistance in the driver ' s airbag first or second inflator ; replace the driver ' s airbag .
Disconnect the dashboard wire harness 4P connector ( A ) from the cable reel .
Connect the SRS inflator simulator ( 2 connectors ) and simulator lead J to the dashboard wire harness .
Open or increased resistance in the cable reel ; replace the cable reel .
Disconnect the negative cable from the battery , and wait for 3 minutes .
Disconnect Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) from the Polox unit .
Disconnect the SRS inflator simulator from the SRS simulator lead .
Do not disconnect the simulator lead from the dashboard wire harness 4P connector .
Measure the resistance between the terminals of both SRS simulator leads .
There should be less than 1 .
Is the resistance as specified ?
Faulty Polox unit or poor connection at Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and the Polox unit .
Check the connection between the connector and the Polox unit .
If the connection is OK , replace the Polox unit .
Press and hold the OFF button , then press the RECIRCULATION CONTROL button five times within 10 seconds .
Open or increased resistance in the dashboard wire harness ; replace the dashboard wire harness .
CCC 11-3x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Short to Another Wire or Decreased Resistance in Driver ' s Airbag First Inflator
CCC 11-6x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Short to Another Wire or Decreased Resistance in Driver ' s Airbag Second Inflator
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 11-3x or 11-6x indicated ?
Is CCC 11-3x or 11-6x indicated ?
Short in the driver ' s airbag first or second inflator ; replace the driver ' s airbag .
Short in the cable reel ; replace the cable reel .
Release the OFF and RECIRCULATION CONTROL buttons ; then the self-diagnostic begins .
Connect an SRS short canceller ( 070AZ-SAA0100 ) to terminals No . 7 and No . 8 and terminals No . 1 and No . 2 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) .
There should be an open circuit or at least 1 M .
Short in the dashboard wire harness ; replace the dashboard wire harness .
CCC 11-8x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Short to Power in Driver ' s Airbag First Inflator
CCC 11-Ax ( 11-A0 to 11-A9 , 11-AA to 11-AF ) :
Short to Power in Driver ' s Airbag Second Inflator
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 11-8x or 11-Ax indicated ?
Is CCC 11-8x or 11-Ax indicated ?
Short to power in the driver ' s airbag first or second inflator ; replace the driver ' s airbag .
WARNING !
The blower motor will run at various speeds regardless of what the panel is displaying .
Short to power in the cable reel ; replace the cable reel .
Measure the for voltage between each terminal of the SRS simulator lead and body ground .
Is the voltage as specified ?
Short to power in the dashboard wire harness ; replace the dashboard wire harness .
CCC 11-9x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Short to Ground in Driver ' s Airbag First Inflator
CCC 11-Bx ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Short to Ground in Driver ' s Airbag Second Inflator
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 12-9x or 12-Bx indicated ?
Is CCC 11-9x or 11-Bx indicated ?
If there is any problem in the system , the system flashes or alternately flashes " WW " and one or more of the 14 segments .
Short to ground in the driver ' s airbag first or second inflator ; replace the driver ' s airbag .
Short to ground in the cable reel ; replace the cable reel .
Measure the resistance between each terminal of the SRS simulator lead and body ground .
Short to ground in the dashboard wire harness ; replace the dashboard wire harness .
Open or Increased Resistance in Front Passenger ' s Airbag First Inflator
Increased Resistance in Front Passenger ' s Airbag First Inflator
Open or Increased Resistance in Front Passenger ' s Airbag Second Inflator
Increased Resistance in Front Passenger ' s Airbag Second Inflator
Disconnect the front passenger ' s airbag 4P connector ( A ) from the dashboard wire harness .
Open or increased resistance in the front passenger ' s airbag first or second inflator ; replace the front passenger ' s airbag .
If there are no problems detected , the segments will not illuminate , and the system will appear to be turned off .
Faulty Polox unit or poor connection at Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) .
Check the connection ; if the connection is OK , replace the Polox unit .
Short to Another Wire or Decreased Resistance in Front Passenger ' s Airbag First Inflator
Short to Another Wire or Decreased Resistance in Front Passenger ' s Airbag Second Inflator
Short in the front passenger ' s airbag first or second inflator ; replace the front passenger ' s airbag .
Connect an SRS short canceller ( 070AZ-SAA0100 ) to the terminals No . 9 and No . 10 , and the terminals No . 3 and No . 4 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) .
Short to Power in Front Passenger ' s Airbag First Inflator
CCC 12-Ax ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Short to Power in Front Passenger ' s Airbag Second Inflator
Canceling the Self-diagnostic Functions
Short to power in the front passenger ' s airbag first or second inflator ; replace the front passenger ' s airbag .
Measure the voltage between each terminal of the SRS simulator lead and body ground .
Short to Ground in Front Passenger ' s Airbag First Inflator
Short to Ground in Front Passenger ' s Airbag Second Inflator
Short to ground in the front passenger ' s airbag first or second inflator ; replace the front passenger ' s airbag .
Open in Driver ' s Seat Belt Tensioner
Increased Resistance in Driver ' s Seat Belt Tensioner
SRS simulator lead K
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 21-1x or 21-2x indicated ?
GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR INTERIOR SIGNS
Disconnect the floor wire harness 4P connector ( A ) from the driver ' s seat belt tensioner .
Connect the SRS inflator simulator ( 2 connectors ) and simulator lead K to the floor wire harness .
Is CCC 21-1x or 21-2x indicated ?
Open or increased resistance in the driver ' s seat belt tensioner ; replace the driver ' s seat belt .
Disconnect the front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner 4P connector .
Disconnect Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) from the Polox unit .
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 1 and the No . 2 of Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) .
There should be 2,0 − 3,0 .
Is resistance as specified ?
Faulty Polox unit or poor connection at Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) and the Polox unit .
ARROW
Check the connection ; if the connection is OK , replace the Polox unit .
Open or increased resistance in the floor wire harness ; replace the floor wire harness .
Short to Another Wire or Decreased Resistance in Driver ' s Seat Belt Tensioner
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 21-3x indicated ?
Is CCC 21-3x indicated ?
Short in the driver ' s seat belt tensioner ; replace the driver ' s seat belt .
Disconnect the simulator lead from the floor wire harness .
Faulty Polox unit or poor connection at Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) and the Polox unit .
Short in the floor wire harness ; replace the floor wire harness .
Short to Power in Driver ' s Seat Belt Tensioner
SINGLE LINE TEXT
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 21-8x indicated ?
Is CCC 21-8x indicated ?
Short to power in the driver ' s seat belt tensioner ; replace the driver ' s seat belt .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 1 of Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) and body ground , and between the terminal No . 2 and body ground .
Short to power in the floor wire harness ; replace the floor wire harness .
Short to Ground in Driver ' s Seat Belt Tensioner
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 21-9x indicated ?
Is CCC 21-9x indicated ?
Short to ground in the driver ' s seat belt tensioner ; replace the driver ' s seat belt .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 1 of Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) and body ground , and between the terminal No . 2 and body ground .
DOUBLE LINE TEXT
Short to ground in the floor wire harness ; replace the floor wire harness .
Open in Front Passenger ' s Seat Belt Tensioner
Increased Resistance in Front Passenger ' s Seat Belt Tensioner
Disconnect the floor wire harness 4P connector ( A ) from the front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner .
Open or increased resistance in the front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner ; replace the front passenger ' s seat belt .
Disconnect the driver ' s seat belt tensioner 4P connector .
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 3 and the No . 4 of Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) .
Short to Another Wire or Decreased Resistance in Front Passenger ' s Seat Belt Tensioner
Short in the front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner ; replace the front passenger ' s seat belt .
Short to Power in Front Passenger ' s Seat Belt Tensioner
BLANK BASE .
Short to power in the front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner ; replace the front passenger ' s seat belt .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 3 of Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) and body ground , and between the terminal No . 4 and body ground .
Short to Ground in Front Passenger ' s Seat Belt Tensioner
Short to ground in the front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner ; replace the front passenger ' s seat belt .
Open in Driver ' s Side Airbag Inflator
Increased Resistance in Driver ' s Side Airbag Inflator
SRS simulator lead L
Disconnect the floor wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the driver ' s side airbag ( B ) .
Connect the SRS inflator simulator ( 2 connectors ) and simulator lead L to the floor wire harness .
C = HEIGHT OF CAPITAL LETTERS = 80mm
Open or increased resistance in the driver ' s side airbag inflator ; replace the driver ' s side airbag .
Disconnect both seat belt tensioner 4P connectors .
Disconnect the SRS inflator simulator from SRS simulator lead .
Do not disconnect the simulator lead from the floor wire harness 2P connector .
Measure the resistance between the terminals of the black SRS simulator lead ( A ) .
There should be less than 1,0 .
Short to Another Wire or Decreased Resistance in Driver ' s Side Airbag Inflator
Short to another wire in the driver ' s side airbag inflator ; replace the driver ' s side airbag .
Connect the SRS short canceller ( 070AZ-SAA0100 ) to the terminals No . 17 and No . 18 of Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) .
MAINTENANCE / REPAIRS
PROJECTING SIGNS - DOUBLE SIDED
Short to Power in Driver ' s Side Airbag Inflator
Short to power in the driver ' s side airbag inflator ; replace the driver ' s side airbag .
Measure the voltage between each terminal of the black SRS simulator lead ( A ) and body ground .
Short to Ground in Driver ' s Side Airbag Inflator
Short to ground in the driver ' s side airbag inflator ; replace the driver ' s side airbag .
Measure the resistance between each terminal of the black SRS simulator lead ( A ) and body ground .
Open in Front Passenger ' s Side Airbag Inflator
Increased Resistance in Front Passenger ' s Side Airbag Inflator
Disconnect the floor wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the front passenger ' s side airbag ( B ) .
Open or increased resistance in the front passenger ' s side airbag inflator ; replace the front passenger ' s side airbag .
TYPEFACE
Short to Another Wire or Decreased Resistance in Front Passenger ' s Side Airbag Inflator
Short to another wire in the front passenger ' s side airbag inflator ; replace the front passenger ' s side airbag .
Short to Power in Front Passenger ' s Side Airbag Inflator
Short to power in the front passenger ' s side airbag inflator ; replace the front passenger ' s side airbag .
Short to Ground in Front Passenger ' s Side Airbag Inflator
Short to ground in the front passenger ' s side airbag inflator ; replace the front passenger ' s side airbag .
Open in Left Side Curtain Airbag Inflator
Increased Resistance in Left Side Curtain Airbag Inflator
Remove the left side quarter pillar trim , then disconnect the floor wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the left side curtain airbag connector ( B ) .
Open or increased resistance in the left side curtain airbag ; replace the left side curtain airbag .
Retail Signs - Interior - Revision 2 .
Faulty Polox unit or poor connection at the Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) and the Polox unit .
Short to Another Wire or Decreased Resistance in Left Side Curtain Airbag Inflator
Short to another wire in the left side curtain airbag inflator ; replace the left side curtain airbag .
Short to another wire in the floor wire harness ; replace the floor wire harness .
Short to Power in Left Side Curtain Airbag Inflator
Short to power in the left side curtain airbag inflator ; replace the left side curtain airbag .
Disconnect the Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) from the Polox unit .
Measure the for voltage between each terminal of the black SRS simulator lead ( A ) and body ground .
Short to power in the floor wire harness ; replace the floor wire harness .
Short to Ground in Left Side Curtain Airbag Inflator
REFERENCE DOCUMENTS
Short to ground in the left side curtain airbag inflator ; replace the left side curtain airbag .
Open in Right Side Curtain Airbag Inflator
Increased Resistance in Right Side Curtain Airbag Inflator
Before doing this troubleshooting procedure , review SRS Precautions and Procedures , General Troubleshooting Information , and Battery Terminal Disconnection and Reconnection .
Remove the right side quarter pillar trim , then disconnect the floor wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the right side curtain airbag connector ( B ) .
Open or increased resistance in the right side curtain airbag inflator , replace the right side curtain airbag .
Short to Another Wire or Decreased Resistance in Right Side Curtain Airbag Inflator
Short to another wire in the right side curtain airbag inflator ; replace the right side curtain airbag .
Connect the SRS short canceller ( 070AZ-SAA0100 ) to the terminals No . 23 and No . 24 of Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) .
Contract Concept and Engineering Drawings and Specification set out in Sign Contractors and NSC Agreement .
Short to Power in Right Side Curtain Airbag Inflator
Short to power in the right side curtain airbag inflator ; replace the right side curtain airbag .
Short to Ground in Right Side Curtain Airbag Inflator
Short to ground in the right side curtain airbag inflator ; replace the right side curtain airbag .
No Signal From the Left Front Impact Sensor
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 41-1x indicated ?
Check the connections between Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and the Polox unit , between the left engine compartment wire harness 2P connector and the left front impact sensor , and at connector C305 .
Repair the poor connections and retest .
If CCC 41-1x is still present , go to .
Disconnect the left engine compartment wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the left front impact sensor .
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 15 and No . 27 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) .
Short in the left engine compartment wire harness or dashboard wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 16 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and body ground , and between the terminal No . 28 and body ground .
Short to ground in the dashboard wire harness or the right engine compartment wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Short to ground in the dashboard wire harness or the left engine compartment wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 15 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and body ground , and between the terminal No . 27 and body ground .
Short to power in the left engine compartment wire harness or the dashboard wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Connect the SRS inflator simulator ( jumper connector ) and the black lead ( A ) of simulator lead L to the left engine compartment wire harness 2P connector ( B ) .
No design , engineering , materials ; colour or typography variances are allowed .
Faulty left front impact sensor or Polox unit ; replace the left front impact sensor .
If the problem is still present , replace the Polox unit .
Poor connection at C305 , open in left engine compartment wire harness , or open in dashboard wire harness .
Inspect C305 .
If it is OK , replace the faulty harness .
CCC 41-2x , 41-8x , 41-9x , 41-Ax , 41-Bx ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Internal Failure of the Left Front Impact Sensor
Internal Failure of the Right Front Impact Sensor
Before doing this troubleshooting procedure , review SRS Precautions and Procedures and General Troubleshooting Information .
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 41-2x , 41-8x , 41-9x , 41-Ax , 41-Bx , 42-2x , 42-8x , 42-9x , 42-Ax , or 42-Bx indicated ?
The brand symbol should not appear on the facility except as provided on the Entrance Statement and Entrance Panel , and by exception , if no Pylon is approved , on a Projecting Sign .
Replace the left or right front impact sensor .
If the CCC returns ,
No Signal From the Right Front Impact Sensor
Check the connections between Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and the Polox unit , between the right engine compartment wire harness 2P connector and the right front impact sensor , and at connector C203 .
Disconnect the right engine compartment wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the right front impact sensor .
Short in the right engine compartment wire harness or dashboard wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Short to power in the right engine compartment wire harness or dashboard wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Connect the SRS inflator simulator ( jumper connector ) and the black lead ( A ) of simulator lead L to the right engine compartment wire harness 2P connector ( B ) .
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 16 and No . 28 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) .
Faulty right front impact sensor or Polox unit ; replace the right front impact sensor .
The minimum sign requirement includes an Entrance Statement or Entrance Panel and Dealer Name letters .
Poor connection at C203 , open in right engine compartment wire harness , or open in dashboard wire harness .
If it is OK , replace the faulty harness .
No Signal From the Left Side Impact Sensor ( first ) )
No Signal From the Left Side Impact Sensor ( second )
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and wait for 10 seconds .
Is CCC 45-1x ( except 45-11 ) indicated ?
Faulty left side impact sensor ( second ) ; replace the left side impact sensor ( second ) .
Faulty left side impact sensor ( first ) ; replace the left side impact sensor ( first ) .
Is CCC 43-11 indicated ?
Check for a damaged floor wire harness between Polox unit and left side impact sensor ( first ) , left side impact sensor ( first ) , and left side impact sensor ( second ) .
A Pylon is highly recommended .
Is the floor wire harness OK ?
Replace the floor wire harness .
Replace the left side impact sensor ( first ) with a known-good part .
Faulty left side impact sensor ( first ) ; replace the original left side impact sensor ( first ) .
Replace the left side impact sensor ( second ) with a known-good part .
Clear the CCC .
Faulty left side impact sensor ( second ) ; replace the original left side impact sensor ( second ) .
Disconnect the floor wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the left side impact sensor ( second ) .
Disconnect the floor wire harness 4P connector ( A ) from the left side impact sensor ( first ) .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 2 and No . 3 of the floor wire harness 4P connector .
Machine No . :
Only the HQ Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters can be placed on the Louvres .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 1 and No . 4 of the floor wire harness 4P connector .
There should be an open circuit or at least 1M .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 2 of floor wire harness 4P connector and body ground , and between the terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 2 of floor wire harness 4P connector and body ground , and between the terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Install a jumper wire between the terminal No . 25 and terminal No . 26 of the Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) .
Open in the floor wire harness ; replace the floor wire harness .
Connect the SRS inflator simulator ( jumper connector ) and the black lead ( A ) of simulator lead L to the floor wire harness 2P connector ( B ) .
Reconnect the floor wire harness 4P connector to the left side impact sensor ( first ) and left side impact sensor ( second ) .
If the CCCs are still indicated , replace the Polox unit .
Internal Failure of the Left Side Impact Sensor ( first )
Neither two HQ Wordmarks nor two Dealer Name Signs should appear at the same corner of a facility .
Internal Failure of the Right Side Impact Sensor ( first )
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 43-2x , 43-8x , 43-9x , 43-Ax , 43-Bx , 44-2x , 44-8x , 44-9x , 44-Ax , or 44-Bx indicated ?
Replace the left or right side impact sensor ( first ) .
No Signal From the Right Side Impact Sensor ( first )
No Signal From the Right Side Impact Sensor ( second )
Faulty right side impact sensor ( second ) ; replace the right side impact sensor ( second ) .
Faulty right side impact sensor ( first ) ; replace the right side impact sensor ( first ) .
Check for damage to the floor wire harness between the Polox unit and right side impact sensor ( first ) , right side impact sensor ( first ) , and right side impact sensor ( second ) .
Replace the right side impact sensor ( first ) with a known-good part .
Faulty right side impact sensor ( first ) ; replace the original right side impact sensor ( first ) .
Louvres may only be used on a Main Dealership ’ s new car showroom or a Full Secondary Dealership .
Replace the right side impact sensor ( second ) with a known-good part .
Faulty right side impact sensor ( second ) ; replace the original right side impact sensor ( second ) .
Disconnect the floor wire harness 2P connector ( A ) from the right side impact sensor ( second ) .
Disconnect the floor wire harness 4P connector ( A ) from the right side impact sensor ( first ) .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 1 and No . 4 of the right side wire harness 4P connector .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 2 of floor wire harness 4P connector and body ground , and between the terminal No . 3 and body ground .
Reconnect the floor wire harness 4P connector to the right side impact sensor ( first ) and right side impact sensor ( second ) .
Internal Failure of the Left Side Impact Sensor ( second )
Internal Failure of the Right Side Impact Sensor ( second )
Replace the left or right side impact sensor ( second ) .
The Secondary dealership has all services as the main dealer but has a contractual relationship with a main Dealer .
CCC 51-xx , 52-xx , 53-xx , 54-xx , 55-xx , 57-xx ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Internal Failure of the Polox unit
Before troubleshooting any of these CCCs , check the battery / system voltage and battery cable corrections .
If the voltage is low , repair the charging system or replace the battery before troubleshooting the SRS .
If the battery / system voltage is now OK , ask the client if the battery ever went dead or if the engine was started and run with the battery in a low state of charge .
A dead battery may trigger one or more of these CCCs .
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 51-xx , 52-xx , 53-xx , 54-xx , 55-xx , or 57-xx indicated ?
Replace the Polox unit .
Open in Driver ' s Seat Belt Buckle Switch
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , then buckle and unbuckle the driver ' s seat belt several times .
The Service Only Dealer only carries out service and maintenance and has no sales facilities .
Is CCC 61-1x indicated ?
Disconnect the driver ' s seat harness 3P connector from the driver ' s seat belt buckle switch 3P connector ( A ) .
From the system selection menu on the Polox system , select SRS , then select SRS again , then select PARAMETER INFORMATION , then Buckle Switch .
Seat Position Sensor , and check the status on the Polox system screen for FRONT LEFT SEAT BELT BUCKLE SWITCH when the seat belt is buckled , and unbuckled .
If UNBUCKLE , BUCKLE , or SHORT is indicated replace the driver ' s seat wire harness , or floor wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
If OPEN is indicated , go to .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 3 of the driver ' s seat wire harness 3P connector and body ground .
Open in the driver ' s seat wire harness or floor wire harness or poor ground connection at G602 .
If G602 is OK , replace the faulty harness .
Alternatery connect the terminals No . 2 and No . 3 of the driver ' s seat wire harness 3P connector to body ground with a jumper wire , and check the status on the Polox system screen .
The Service Only Dealer has a contractual relationship with a Main Dealer .
Does the status alternate from UNBUCKLE to BUCKLE ?
Replace the driver ' s seat belt buckle assembly , then clear the CCC .
Open in the driver ' s seat wire harness or floor wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Short in Driver ' s Seat Belt Buckle Switch
Is CCC 61-2x indicated ?
Disconnect the driver ' s seat wire harness 3P connector from the driver ' s seat belt buckle switch 3P connector ( A ) .
From the system selection menu on the Polox system , select SRS , then select SRS again , then select PARAMETER INFORMATION , then Buckle Switch , Seat Position Sensor , and Check the status on the Polox system screen for FRONT LEFT SEAT BELT BUCKLE SWITCH .
Is OPEN indicated on the Polox system ?
Short to ground in the driver ' s seat wire harness or floor wire harness ; replace the faulty wire harness .
Open in Front Passenger ' s Seat Belt Buckle Switch
Retail Signs - Application Rules - New Car Facilities - Revision 2
Disconnect the front passenger ' s seat wire harness 3P connector from the front passenger ' s seat belt buckle switch 3P connector ( A ) .
From the system selection menu on the Polox system , select SRS , then select SRS again , then select PARAMETER INFROMATION , then Buckle Switch .
Seat Position Sensor , and check the status on the Polox system screen for FRONT RIGHT SEAT BELT BUCKLE SWITCH when the seat belt is buckled , and unbuckled .
If UNBUCKLE , BUCKLE , or SHORT is indicated open in the front passenger ' s seat wire harness , or floor wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 3 of the front passenger ' s seat wire harness 3P connector and body ground .
There should be less than 1 .
Open in the front passenger ' s seat wire harness or floor wire harness or poor ground connection at G602 .
Alternatery connect the terminals No . 2 and No . 3 of the front passenger ' s seat wire harness 3P connector to body ground with a jumper wire , and check the status on the Polox system screen .
Replace the front passenger ' s seat belt buckle assembly , then clear the CCC .
Open in the front passenger ' s seat wire harness or floor wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
CORE APPLICATION GUIDELINES FOR EXTERNAL SIGNAGE FOR MAIN DEALER , MAIN DEALER ADDITIONAL OUTLET AND FULL SECONDARY DEALER
Short in Front Passenger ' s Seat Belt Buckle Switch
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , then buckle and unbuckle the front passenger ' s seat belt several times .
Disconnect the front passenger ' s seat wire harness 3P connector from the front passenger ' s seat belt buckle switch 3P connector ( A ) .
From the system selection menu on the Polox system , select SRS , then select SRS again , then select PARAMETER INFORMATION , then Buckle Switch , Seat Position Sensor , and check the status on the Polox system screen for FRONT RIGHT SEAT BELT BUCKLE SWITCH .
Short to ground in the front passenger ' s seat wire harness or floor wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Open in Driver ' s Seat Position Sensor
Check the connection between the driver ' s seat wire harness 2P connector and the driver ' s seat position sensor .
Disconnect the driver ' s seat wire harness 2P connector from the driver ' s seat position sensor ( A ) .
Connect the terminals No . 1 and No . 2 of the driver ' s seat wire harness 2P connector with a jumper wire .
Measure the resistance between the terminals No . 5 and No . 6 of Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) .
1.0 DEALER PYLON
Faulty driver ' s seat position sensor or Polox unit ; replace the driver ' s seat position sensor .
Open in the floor wire harness or the driver ' s seat wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Short in Driver ' s Seat Position Sensor
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 71-2x indicated ?
Faulty driver ' s seat position sensor ; replace the driver ' s seat position sensor .
Short in the floor wire harness or the driver ' s seat wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 5 of Polox unit connector B ( 28P ) and body ground , and between the terminal No . 6 and body ground .
Faulty driver ' s seat position sensor or the Polox unit ; replace the driver ' s seat position sensor .
CCC 81-4x , 81-63 , 81-64 ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Internal Failure of the clip Unit
Dealer Pylons should be adjacent / visible from the main road / highway .
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 81-4x , 81-63 , or 81-64 indicated ?
Does the SRS indicator go off ?
The system is fine .
Replace the clip unit .
No Signal From the clip Unit
Response Data Error From the clip Unit
Is CCC 81-61 , 85-61 , 81-62 , or 85-62 indicated ?
Check the connection between the clip unit harness 18P connector and the clip unit .
Is the connection OK ?
The manufacturer does not recommend joining over 2 metres of pipe length to the T junction .
Release Pos .
Do not switch on !
Dealer Pylons are available in 4 different sizes ( 2.40 m . monument size , 3.60 m . , 4.80 m . and 6.00 m ) .
Repair the poor connection and retest .
If CCC 85-61 or 85-62 is still present , go to .
Check the No . 20 ( 7,5 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Replace the fuse , then turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) .
If the fuse blows again , check for a short in the No . 20 ( 7,5 A ) fuse circuit ( floor wire harness or clip unit harness ) .
Disconnect the clip unit harness 18P connector ( A ) from the clip unit .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 1 of the clip unit harness 18P connector and body ground .
Open in the floor wire harness or clip unit harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 12 of the clip unit harness 18P connector and body ground .
Open in the clip unit harness , floor wire harness , or poor ground connection at G605 .
The Dealer Pylon will replace the Network 2000 pylon and will fit on the Network 2000 foundation where appropriate .
If G605 is OK , replace the faulty harness .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 14 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and body ground .
Short to ground in the dashboard wire harness or floor wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and measure the voltage between the terminal No . 14 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and body ground .
Short to power in the dashboard wire harness or floor wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 14 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and the terminal No . 7 of the clip unit harness 18P connector .
Faulty clip unit or Polox unit ; replace the clip unit .
Open in the dashboard wire harness or floor wire harness ; replace the faulty harness .
clip Unit Does Not Calibrate
For new build sites or when the pylon needs to be relocated , the priority in Dealer Pylons is :
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is 81-71 or 81-78 indicated ?
Front Passenger ' s Weight Sensors Initial Check Failure
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC 81-79 indicated ?
Remove the front passenger ' s seat assembly and the front passenger ' s weight sensors , then reinstall them .
Retry the troubleshooting .
If CCC 81-79 is still present , replace the front passenger ' s weight sensors .
No Signal From the Inner Side Front Passenger ' s Weight Sensor
Replace the inner side front passenger ' s weight sensor .
If the CCC is still present , replace the front passenger ' s seat wire harness .
first 4.80 m , second 3.60 m or 6.00 m .
No Signal From the Outer Side Front Passenger ' s Weight Sensor
Replace the outer side front passenger ' s weight sensor .
CCC 85-4x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) , 85-63 , 85-64 :
An incorrect clip unit can cause CCC 85-63 .
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC85-4x , 85-5x , 85-63 , or 85-64 indicated ?
Replace the clip unit and retest .
If the CCC is still present , replace the Polox unit .
clip Unit not Initialized
OPDS Sensor Initial Check Failure
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , and go to .
Monument size can be used whenever a Dealer Pylon is not an option due to site constraints or permit approval .
If the problem is still present , replace the OPDS sensor / seat-back .
CCC 86-1x , 86-2x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Faulty OPDS Sensor
Aftermarket devices ( fluorescent lights , laptop computers , etc . ) used near the front passenger ' s seat-back can interfere with the seat-back sensors and cause a false CCC 86-1x or 86-2x .
If one of these devices was used , erase the CCC , operate the device near the seat-back , and recheck for CCCs .
If CCC 86-1x or 86-2x is set , erase it , and do not use the device near the seat-back .
Check the connection at the OPDS sensor harness connectors ( A ) and the clip unit connector ( B ) .
Repair the poor connections , and clear the CCC .
Replace the OPDS sensor / seat-back foam , and initialize the clip unit .
Erase the CCC memory , then check for CCC 86-1x or 86-2x .
Dealer Pylons will not have any additional text ( e . g . dealer name ) and will not be illuminated by indirect lighting .
Open in the Passenger ' s Airbag Cutoff Indicator
Disconnect the passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator 6P connector .
Measure the voltage between the terminal No . 13 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and body ground .
Faulty Polox unit or passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator ; replace the passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator .
Open or Short to Ground in Passenger ' s Airbag Cutoff Indicator
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and CCC 92-2x indicated ?
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 2 of the passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator 6P connector and the terminal No . 13 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) .
Open in the dashboard wire harness ; replace the dashboard wire harness .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 13 of the Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and body ground .
Replace the passenger ' s airbag cutoff indicator .
Dealer Pylons to be positioned perpendicular to the main road , in close proximity to the main entrance to the Dealer site .
Short to ground in the dashboard wire harness ; replace the dashboard wire harness .
CCC A1-1x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Faulty Power supply ( VA Line )
Is CCC A1-1x indicated ?
If the fuse blows again , check for a short in the No . 20 ( 7,5 A ) fuse circuit ( dashboard wire harness , floor wire harness , or clip unit harness ) .
Disconnect the Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) from the Polox unit .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and measure the voltage .
There should be battery voltage when the ignition is on .
Faulty Polox unit or poor connection at Polox unit connector ( A ) 28P and the Polox unit .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 36 of under-dash fuse / relay box connector X ( 39P ) and the terminal No . 17 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) .
If a site is able to accept two or more Pylons then the largest should be located at the main site entrance .
Open in the under-dash fuse / relay box or poor contact between connector X ( 39P ) and the under-dash fuse / relay box ; check the connection .
If the connection is OK , replace the under-dash fuse / relay box .
CCC A2-1x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Faulty Power Supply ( VB Line )
Check the No . 22 ( 10 A ) fuse in the under-dash fuse / relay box .
Replace the No . 22 ( 10 A ) fuse .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) and wait for 30 seconds .
Then turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) .
Check the No . 22 ( 10 A ) fuse .
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , and wait for 30 seconds .
Preferably the facility main door entrance should be visible from the Dealer Pylon .
Short to ground in the Polox unit ; replace the Polox unit .
Short to ground in the dashboard wire harness or in the under-dash fuse / relay box No . 22 ( 10 A ) fuse line ; replace the dashboard wire harness .
If the problem is still there , replace the under-dash fuse / relay box .
There should be battery voltage with the ignition on .
Faulty Polox unit or poor connection at Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) and the Polox unit ; check the connection .
Disconnect under-dash fuse / relay box connector S ( 2P ) .
Measure the resistance between the terminal No . 1 of the under-dash fuse / relay box connector S ( 2P ) and the terminal No . 18 of Polox unit connector A ( 28P ) .
Open in the under-dash fuse / relay box or poor connection between connector S ( 2P ) and the under-dash fuse / relay box ; check the connection .
CCC B1-1x ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
2.0 ENTRANCE STATEMENT ( E . S . )
No Signal From the Roll Rate Sensor
No Signal From the Rear Safing Sensor
Turn the ignition switch to ON ( II ) , then wait for 10 seconds .
Is CCC B1-1x ( except B1-11 ) indicated ?
Faulty roll rate sensor ; replace the roll rate sensor .
Faulty rear safing sensor ; replace the rear safing sensor .
Is CCC B2-11 indicated ?
Check for damage to the floor wire harness between the Polox unit and rear safing sensor , rear safing sensor , and roll rate sensor .
Replace the rear safing sensor with a known-good part .
Faulty rear safing sensor ; replace the original rear safing sensor .
Restarting
Preferably a standardized integrated S , M or L version will be used ; these can be used handed as well .
Replace the roll rate sensor with a known-good part .
Faulty roll rate sensor ; replace the original roll rate sensor .
Disconnect Polox unit connector C ( 16P ) from the Polox unit .
Install a jumper wire between the terminal No . 4 and terminal No . 8 of the Polox unit connector C ( 16P ) .
Connect the SRS inflator simulator ( jumper connector ) and the brack lead ( A ) of simulator lead L to the floor wire harness 2P connector ( B ) .
Reconnect the floor wire harness 4P connector to the rear safing sensor and roll rate sensor .
CCC B1-2x , B1-8x , B1-9x , B1-Ax , B1-Bx ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Internal Failure of the Roll Rate Sensor
Turn the ignition switch ON ( II ) , and check that the SRS indicator comes on for about 6 seconds and then goes off .
Does the SRS indicator stay on , and is CCC B1-2x , B1-8x , B1-9x , B1-Ax , or B1-Bx indicated ?
Priority for application :
Replace the roll rate sensor .
Internal Failure of the Rear Safing Sensor
Replace the rear safing sensor .
CCC Ex-xx ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Control Operation Recorded
CCC Fx-xx ( x ' ' can be 0 thru 9 or A thru F ) :
Airbags and / or Tensioners Deployment Recorded
Front passenger ' s airbag did not deploy by SWS operation .
Front left side airbag did not deploy by OPDS operation .
Driver ' s airbag and / or driver ' s seat belt tensioner deployed .
Front passenger ' s airbag and / or front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner deployed .
Driver ' s side airbag , left side curtain airbag , and / or driver ' s seat belt tensioner deployed .
Front passenger ' s side airbag , right side curtain airbag , and / or front passenger ' s seat belt tensioner deployed .
One or both side curtain airbags , and seat belt tensioners deployed .
Left side curtain airbag or right side curtain airbag deployed .
The appearance of all our dealerships must support our image in the US and Latin America .
The Polox unit must be replaced after any airbags and / or tensioners have deployed .
Error 11 is set if the system triggered airbag deployment but the front passenger ' s airbag was prevented from deploying because of the seat weight sensor .
If 2.1 is not possible E . S . has to be adjusted to size by varying the width and height of the element through the E . S . is positioned in front of glass fa ç ade , sizes are preferably adjusted to the nearest transom and mullion .
Error 11 is set if the system triggered a passenger ' s side airbag deployment but the airbag was prevented from deploying by the clip .
Replace the right side impact sensor ( first ) .
Number of computers dedicated to graphic design
Number of computers dedicated to CAD design
The E . S . should preferably be visible from customer parking .
The E . S . should only be applied to main dealership entrance .
The chosen E . S . should either be the same height or lower than the roof line – never higher .
The height – width ratio has to remain intact as much as possible .
The golden panels should have a height : width ratio of 1 :
Height has no direct relation to the position or type of dampers used .
only by :
Height has direct relation to the position or type of Louvres used .
Height has no direct relation to the position or type of Louvres used , but all are to be in proportion with the size and overall appearance of the building .
Height has direct relation to the position or type of Louvres used , because all need to be in proportion with the overall appearance of the building .
The rear of the E . S . is open and should be attached to the facade .
If this is a glass fa ç ade the rear must be covered by the application of Sunrise Silver self-adhesive vinyl to the inside surface of the glazing .
On new build the E . S . can be attached to a solid wall .
The Dealer Name is to be positioned in Sunrise Silver letters on the red portion of the element at a fixed height above the ground .
No other text or visuals are allowed .
Local regulations might dictate the full dealer name to be showed on the facility , which can be displayed on the red portion .
If an integrated E . S . is not possible due to size and shape of the building , a freestanding E . S . is an approved alternative solution .
Combined ABS does not operate when the Combined ABS indicator is on .
The size of the Brand Symbol per E . S . is fixed , no variants are allowed .
Minor variations in ground level can be resolved by scribing / chamfering the charcoal grey plinth .
3.0 ENTRANCE STATEMENT PANEL ( E . S . P . ) & ENTRANCE PANEL ( E . P . )
When both the integrated and freestanding E . S . cannot be used due to site constraints ( e . g . inner city dealerships that border on pavements ) the E . S . P . in combination with a red E . P . can be used .
E . S . P ’ s are available in different heights and have a standard length of 3000 mm ( if required width can be adjusted within the margins set in the detail drawings ) .
EP is available in two sizes .
There is no relation between the type of E . P . used and the height of the E . S . P . but size and appearance of the entrance should be in proportion with the facility .
The Dealer Name is to be positioned in sunrise silver letters on the E . P . No other text or visuals are allowed .
E . P . to be positioned 200 to 300 mm from ground level .
EP can be on either side of the doorway .
Normally , this indicator comes on when the ignition is turned ON , and goes off after you ride the motorcycle at a speed above 10 km / h ( 6 mph ) . If there is a problem with Combined ABS , the indicator lights or flashes and remains on .
When replacing NW2000 signage the E . P . can be attached to Network 2000 600 / 1000 hanging rails .
Left hand side of E . P . to be aligned with left hand side of E . S . P . The E . P . can be adjacent to the ESP to create the perception of a E . S .
The Brand Symbol on E . S . P . to be aligned with centre of entrance door .
0 LOUVRES & BRACKETS
Louvres are only to be positioned on the New Vehicle Showroom fa ç ade to indicate where new cars are displayed .
Louvres should be applied as a minimum to the full width of the showroom ’ s primary elevation .
Louvres may be installed on secondary elevations in addition to the primary elevation provided that the secondary elevation is part of the New Vehicle sales showroom .
Louvres shall not appear / project above the roofline .
Our brandname and logo and the Dealer Name letters are the only permissible signs that shall appear on the Louvres .
Louvres are to run horizontally and parallel in front of the glass fa ç ade .
If necessary the area is to be additionally closed off by an expert .
Preferably Louvres should run on the same horizontal level irrespective of varying roof lines / building heights .
Height of Louvres depends on height and general appearance of building .
First preference position is in front of glass , but the underside of the bottom Louvre should be minimum 2.70 m above ground level .
Second preferred position is bottom Louvre positioned in front of the glass and top Louvres above the glass in front of the fascia .
Top Louvre should be at the same height as the top of Network 2000 fascia .
If 5.4 and 5.5 are not possible , Louvres can be positioned above the glass ( in case of existing Network 2000 :
to replace the blue fascia band ) .
Previous Network 2000 support construction is to be reused as much as possible .
In the case where Network 2000 fascia is removed silver aluminum back panels may be required behind the Louvres .
In the situation of a glass fa ç ade application brackets are to be positioned on the window mullions .
Should work be required involving a danger with transport vehicles , the closing off of the area is absolutely necessary .
Louvres have a maximum span of 3.00 m between brackets but can be less if agreed .
Brackets to align with mullions if possible .
Rows of Louvres relate to size of the bench and Dealer Name Letters , refer to table in section 5 .
At the corners of a facility Louvres will be ‘ open ’ .
Mitered angles to continue around corners of facetted / curved buildings are not required .
Only in exceptional circumstances will Half Louvres be allowed as the back panel for Dealer Name and Wordmark , i . e . above showrooms at urban sites where the depth of full Louvres exceeds local regulations .
5.0 DEALER NAME LETTERS AND LOGO
Dealer Name letters in general to be positioned on the Louvres at the primary elevation , whereby the Dealer Name is positioned on the left and the HQ Wordmark on the right .
[ Note :
If the Entrance Statement is located on the extreme right hand side of the primary elevation , then the Dealer Name letters may be reversed in order to avoid the conflict with the HQ Brand Symbol on the Entrance Statement ] .
Before dismantling or removing of a component it must be checked if movements are triggered off ( e . g . lowering of a Z-axis ) .
In case of a significant surface of closed ( non glazed ) facade above the Louvres , Dealer Name and Wordmark can be positioned above the Louvres but only on silver cladding background .
The words HQ , Dealer ( or any translation ) , additions like Ltd , SAS , BV . GmbH . S . p . A . , etc shall be excluded from the Dealer Name letters .
Long Dealer Names should be avoided .
HQ Wordmark and Dealer Name are available in different sizes .
The number of Louvres used determines position and size of letters as per the table below .
The number of HQ Wordmarks will always be equal to or more than the number of Dealer Names .
The distance between the HQ Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters should not exceed 30 m and as a minimum should not be less than four times the height of the HQ Wordmark letters .
In the case when both HQ Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters will not fit in the space available on the Louvres , the Dealer Name letters shall take preference and the HQ Wordmark shall be re-located onto another part of the elevation independent of the Louvres .
Alternatively , Louvres may be extended to a secondary elevation and used to present the HQ Wordmark .
Dealer Name letters shall not be stacked .
In this case the movement must be prevented by safeguarding .
Neither two HQ Wordmarks nor two Dealer Name signs should appear at the same corner of a facility .
Bottom edges of HQ Wordmark and Dealer name should align .
Type of Louvres , size of Wordmark and Dealer Name letters and their position on the Louvres are presented in the table below :
No . OF LOUVRES
AND HEIGHT ( MM )
HEIGHT ( mm )
CORNER DISTANCE
PROJECTING SIGNS & WALL / ROOF SIGNS
Projecting Sign ; small and large size available .
Only spare parts may be used which correspond to the technical requirements of the manufacturer .
Use of Projecting Signs should be minimised and can only be used if no Pylon or Monument Sign are allowed .
Position of Projecting Sign is preferably above the Louvres .
If not possible , the Projecting Sign can be positioned at the fascia and always at the end of the Louvres , never in the middle .
For this position the bottom of the Projecting Sign is aligned to the bottom row of Louvres .
Wall Signs and Roof Sign on silver back panels to be used for long visibility .
Used for long visibility at high levels above the Louvres .
( two sizes available )
two sizes available
Roof and wall signs should be in proportion to the building .
locational & directional signage
Gripper Jaws .
If any alterations at the station are exFTted without prior consultation or agreement with “ Johann A . Krause ( UK ) Ltd ” the guarantee no longer applies and the responsibility is assumed by the party exFTting the work .
Network 2000 Locational and Directional Signage ( external and internal ) to be replaced .
The text available for Locational and Directional Signage should preferably be restricted to :
Reception
Commercial vehicles / LCV
Exit
Pre-Owned Vehicles
Body Shop .
NSC ’ s to translate these texts into local language wordings applicable to all sites .
Freestanding solid Directional Signs shall always possess 3 , 5 or 7 slats .
Blank slats are approved and to be positioned to the bottom .
Before restarting , the result of the work is to be checked ; all aids , tools and cranes must be removed from the protective area .
Wall mounted , Projecting and Ceiling mounted Locational and Directional Signage can be 1 or more slats .
Blanks are not required .
Each full text line should possess a directional arrow .
Arrows should not be positioned on curved end .
Text on more than one slat line should be avoided .
Stacked text should be avoided .
All Directional and Location Signs may have their post heights adjusted to suit site circumstances .
Retail Signs - Application Rules - Interior Signs - Revision 2
In general , interior signage uses the same proportions as exterior directional signs but the interior signs should be smaller , and of a size that can be easily read .
Examples are provided at the end .
It must be assured that there are no persons in the protective area .
The Dealership should be as straight forward and easy to use as possible without the need for signs .
Interior signage should only be used where it definitely assists the customer .
Text and Symbols should be presented in HQ Black , matt finish against a back ground of HQ Silver Metallic ACM or equal .
Directional arrows should match HQ Blue .
Interior signs can be applied in Wall Mounted ( single sided ) , Hanging ( double sided ) and Projecting ( double sided ) variants .
The supporting rclip / fixing plates for the Hanging and Projecting signs are to be Charcoal Grey RAL 7021 .
In certain circumstances ( such as glass doors ) the text may be presented in HQ White without the silver background .
Typeface is HQ AG Medium Extended in upper and lower case .
Opening hours maybe placed on doors or on the windows adjacent to the main entrance as above .
Each interior sign panel is to include a maximum of 4 department / location texts and should include a ‘ blank ’ panel at the bottom .
If necessary machine functions should be run in manual mode .
Each wall sign panel is to be fixed at a height of 1200 mm from floor level measured to the upper edge of the sign in the case of wall mounted signs .
Hanging and projecting signs should be fitted at a position 100 mm below the ceiling height or 2300 mm above floor level ( measured to the underside of the sign ) or whichever gives the greater headroom .
Regulatory signage , such as location of fire escapes , positions of fire extinguishers and fire door signs are to be provided to regulation standard .
It is recommended that advice from the local Fire Authority is sought for the type and position requirements .
Office signage , e . g . door plaques , are not mandatory and are not included within these Application Rules , however , if door signs are required they should be simple and clear with sunrise silver backgrounds with the HQ typeface in HQ red .
EXAMPLES ( RECOMMENDATIONS )
Sizes per panel ( LxHxD ) mm
WALL MOUNTED ( SINGLE SIDED )
1000 x 160 x 30
HANGING ( DOUBLE SIDED )
After automatic start all necessary movements and processes of the machine must be observed for correct functioning .
2 panels maximum but no less than 2300mm measured from floor to underside of sign 1000 x 160 x 40
PROJECTING SIGN ( DOUBLE SIDED )
A maximum length of 250mm beyond the end of each word should define the total length of the sign .
Blank keys are available at your dealers .
Ask your dealer to make any additional spare keys you may need , using your original key as a master .
APPLICATION RULES - STAND ALONE , SERVICE WORKSHOPS , USED CARS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE FACILITIES
Retail Signs - Application Rules - Stand Alone , Service Workshops , Used Cars and Commercial Vehicle Facilities - Revision 2
The minimum sign requirement includes a HQ Wordmark , Dealer Name letters , pole mounted pylon and wall signs .
Louvres may only be used on a Main Dealer new car showroom or a Full Secondary Dealership .
The HQ Secondary dealership has all services as the Main Dealer but has a contractual relationship with a main HQ Dealer .
Warning signs “ maintenance / repairs ” are to be removed .
The HQ Service Only Dealer does only carry out service and maintenance and has no sales facilities .
0 C OMMERCIAL PYLON ( LCV / TRUCK , USED CARS PYLON )
Commercial Pylons are available in three different sizes ( 2.4 m monument , 3.6 m and 4.8 m ) .
Used Cars , Service , Truck or Authorised Repair Shop should appear on the pole sign header panel in combination with the HQ Wordmark and should be in the local language .
Header panel text to be adapted to local requirements by NSC ’ s .
Used Car or Commercial Pylon should be in close proximity to Commercial or Truck facilities where they exist .
Used Car or Commercial Pylon to be positioned perpendicular to the main road preferably in close proximity to the main entrance to the Dealer site .
Used Car or Commercial Pylons should always be smaller than the Dealer Retail Pylon and Used Car / Commercial Pylons should be located at least 10m from the Dealer Retail Pylon .
Priority in Used Car or Commercial Pylons :
first 4.8 m , second 3.6 m , third monument .
Pictograms
Monument size can be used whenever a Dealer Pylon is not an Option due to site constraints or permit approval .
Used Car or Commercial Pylons should not possess any additional text ( e . g . Dealer Name ) and should not be illuminated by indirect lighting .
2.0 MONUMENT , PROJECTING AND WALL MOUNTED SIGNS
The Monument and Wall Mounted signs exist all as the commercial specification and as an alternative to the Pole mounted Pylon .
The use of these signs should be minimized and only when no Pole mounted Pylon can be applied .
3.0 ENTRANCE STATEMENT & LOUVRES
No Entrance Statements to be applied to the building .
No Louvres to be applied to the building .
4.0 SERVICE SIGN
The Service Text , in white letters may be applied to a stand alone facility in local language .
Key to the pictograms used
In case a Main Dealership has stand-alone facilities for Service Only or Used Cars on the same site , the Dealer Name should only appear on the main building .
All further identifications should be covered with directional and or locational signage .
Sizes available as Dealers Name for Main Dealers facility .
If the stand alone building is on a separate site , the Dealer Name is recommended instead of the Service text but this is not mandatory .
5.0 HQ WORDMARK AND DEALER NAMES
The HQ Wordmark and Dealers Name OR Service text letters should be applied to the stand alone building to the primary elevation .
The HQ Wordmark and Dealer Name letters should be fixed on to Sunrise Silver back panels .
Dealer Name or Service letters should preferably be located on the left side of the primary elevation and the HQ Wordmark to the right .
6.0 DIRECTIONAL & LOCATIONAL SIGNS
Directional & Locational signs as per Main Dealer application rules .
Replacement of wear parts
Retail Signs - Application Rules - Flags - Revision 2
Flag poles are to be either 8m , 10m or 12m high ( subject to Planning restrictions ) .
The poles are to be white powder coated aluminium and mm diameter constructed of GRP and aluminium .
Flag sizes are :
12m flag poles - 6m x 1.5 m flags
8m flag poles – 4m x 1m flags
The Flags are to be in sets of either 3 or 5 and be set at right angles to the main road at the end boundary at 3.5 m apart ( one set only in each case ) .
See diagram .
Flags should not be positioned near the Pylon or Entrance Statement .
The Flags are spun polyester with white background and red letters to read HQ .
Switching the station on and off
Flags with a red background and white letters are used to advertise the Dealer name and will only be a single Flag in the case of 3 total and 2 Dealer name Flags when 5 total Flags are used .
Where HQ Flags are to be used with Renault Flags both sets of Flags are to be the same height , size and number .
For design of Banners please contact Marketing Department .
CARE AND MAINTENANCE
Ensure flags are fitted correctly and securely to the flag pole so that they cannot make contact with any surfaces that will reduce their life span ( tree branches , roof tiles etc ) .
Flagpoles should always be kept in good condition as any flaky paint or rough surfaces will reduce the life expectancy .
Why fly your flags at night when they can ' t be seen , it has been proven that flags flown for 24hrs 7 days a week will only last for a third of the time of one flown only during daylight hours .
Take flags down during heavy to storm force winds and during periclip of harsh weather conditions such as hail , snow or heavy rain .
This prevents the flags from fraying and your flag poles being damaged .
Settings :
Sequence
Launder and repair your flags regularly .
A flag can be cleaned using warm water ( 40deg ) and mild detergent .
This helps slow the rate at which a flag discolours and stains from all the air pollutants .
By repairing any loose threads normally found on the fly edge of the flag ( the edge with most movement ) you reduce the speed at which the flag wears out .
Always store spare flags folded and dry .
Flags should be replaced every 3 – 4 months depending on usage and their exposure to harsh weather .
Average life span is 6 months if well maintained .
FIXING
BRAND SYMBOL
Cleaning work
ACM PANELS
RED POLYCARBONATE LEGS
STEEL BASE PLATE
ELECTRICS
SURROUNDING AREA
DEFECT
Sign not vertical and secure
Non illuminated
Fixed incorrectly
Damaged or scratched
Lubrication work
Light bleed
Light flickering
Misaligned
Joints open
InsFTre
Rust on joints
Missing cover
Not connected
Made Good and Clean
MAJOR OR MINOR DEFECT
Sequence malfunction
Major
Minor ( unless visible from 2m )
Minor
Retail Signs - Quality Assurance - Revision 2
Contract Drawings set out in Sign Contractors and NSC Agreement .
Correct colours , fonts , use of Logo / Brand Symbol and specification .
LIGHT BLEED
OPEN JOINTS
ELECTRICS NOT CONNECTED
DOWNLIGHTS
Technical data
ROOF DRAINAGE
Sign not vertical and secure to building
No vinyl applied to window
Not fixed correctly
Bad interface with building
Dealer Name missing
Not fitted
Incorrect
ACM DAMAGED
NO VINYL APPLIED TO WINDOW
Initial position
MISALIGNED PANELS
BRACKETS
BACK PANELS
Incorrect centres
Incorrectly installed
Plates fitted the wrong way round
Blades fitted the wrong way round
Wall damage
Misaligned centres
Misaligned lines
Please refer to the safety precautions supplied with the station on delivery .
Incorrect size , location or spacing .
Incorrect type , size , location or spacing .
Misaligned or not flush
Not vertical and secure
Major .
LIGHT FLICKERING
INCORRECT SPACING
LETTER DAMAGED
PROJECTING SIGNS
Red accent missing
They have to be READ AND REHEARSED before operating the station for the first time and on each occasion subsequently !
NAVIGATION SIGNS
LETTERING
Incorrect wording , direction arrows or order
Not vertical and secure to ground
Poles incorrect height
Made good and clean
MISALIGNED JOINTS
DAMAGED ACM
RAPID SERVICE SIGNS
RED ACCENT LINE
Any addition to these safety instructions , instructions for units or components of other manufacturers or Johann A Krause are also to be read completely and applied .
Not vertical and secure to building
Incorrect wording
POLES
Incorrect specification ( height and / or
diameter )
Incorrect design
Incorrect size
OTHER ( SPECIFY ) ITEM
SITE CLEAN UP
REDUNDANT SIGNS
CLEANING
NEWSIGNS
SITE
Not removed
Dirty
Incomplete
Not clean and tidy
REDUNDANT SIGNS NOT REMOVED
SITE NOT CLEAN AND TIDY
Interiors - Contents - Revision 2
Distance Piece .
Before cleaning , the station must be in the state required for repairs .
LIGHTING
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS
COLOURS AND FINISHES
THE OVERALL APPEARANCE AND QUALITY OF THE INTERIOR IS TO A LARGER EXTENT DETERMINED BY THE SUCCESS OF THE LIGHTING SYSTEM
The primary requirements of the lighting system in a retail environment are :
To display the products to their best advantage .
To contribute to the atmosphere and ambience .
To achieve these requirements the lighting scheme must work both functionally and aesthetically .
The vehicles should be made to ‘ sparkle ’ and attract the customers :
car colours should appear vibrant and true , and the shape of the cars should be accentuated by careful and creative lighting .
In order to protect people and machines , the cleaning is to be exFTted by the staff responsible for maintenance and repairs .
This prevents a ‘ flat ’ bland or dull appearance , which may occur if only a functional level of lighting is used throughout .
Fluorescent strip lighting should be avoided .
In addition to focussing on the vehicles , the lighting must create a pleasant atmosphere for the customers , allowing them to feel comfortable and relaxed .
There is a delicate line between a bright and exciting showroom and an uncomfortable glare .
This is particularly important in designated customer areas such as the customer zone , confidential and informal waiting areas , distinguishing them from other more product orientated areas .
In addition a reasonably warm coloured light ( less than 4000K ) should be chosen which ensures people appear natural and healthy .
If successfully integrated into the interior , the lighting system should not attract attention in itself but complement and enhance the vehicles on offer .
DEALERSHIP FROM OUTSIDE
Peoples ’ attention is first attracted by the exterior signage .
It is essential that once this attention is gained the customers are encouraged to enter the showroom .
The use of compressed air for cleaning is not permitted , as there is a danger of injury and the possibility of damaging components and machines .
This is achieved by a well lit exciting display that draws customers in and clearly indicates that the Dealership is open .
Display lighting should be focused on the vertical surfaces , such as the sides of the cars immediately behind the glazing and the back wall washers .
A level of lighting ( measured on vertical surfaces ) of 500 – 1000 Lux should be achieved .
ENTRANCE AREA
This area should be relaxing , welcoming and interesting .
Great care should be taken to ensure that whilst the customer is not dazzled he also does not feel that this area is dull .
Recessed downlighters provide bright pools of light of about 500 Lux rather than a uniformed lighting level and feature luminaires may be used .
The main body of the showroom requires both uniformed background lighting to provide a good overall level of illumination and also accent or display lighting to create excitement in the vehicles .
The background lighting by itself should achieve about 450 Lux throughout , the colour rendering should achieve a minimum of 85 Ra and the colour temperature should be 3500K to 4000K .
The luminaires should be recessed and point source rather than a linear arrangement .
Due to the industrial health and safety standards , solvents and petrol are prohibited .
In addition to the background lighting , display lighting focuses attention on the vehicles and should ‘ bring them to life ’ .
Adjustable spotlights should create additional 1500 – 3000 lux pools of light on the cars .
A minimum of 3 display luminaires per car .
Great care must be taken to ensure that the customers are not dazzled therefore all spots should be angled downward and lamps should not be easily visible .
Internal walls should be ‘ washed ’ by downlighters or wallwashers and be lit to between 500 and 1000 lux .
It is most important that these very visible surfaces are brightly lit as these have a significant impact on the overall appearance of the showroom .
Interiors - Lighting - Revision 2
CUSTOMER ZONE
The customer zone areas should be more relaxing than the showroom but should not be dull by comparison .
A general lighting level of between 300 and 500 lux will be adequate but additional spot , task and display lighting should be added for the appropriate functions and to provide atmosphere including Brand Wall .
If necessary , permitted cleaning materials may be applied if used correctly .
Typical additional lighting may include uplighters and low voltage spotlamps or desk lamps .
RECEPTION
The reception area is the heart of the Dealership and should combine functional lighting with some interesting lighting effects such as downlighters or spot lights over the reception desk .
LIGHTING WHEN CLOSED
Even when the Dealership is closed it still carries out an important function , both increasing awareness of the Dealership and for ‘ window-shoppers ’ .
In fact the Dealership with the new signage looks most dramatic at night and the opportunity should not be lost to stimulate interest in the cars .
In general the showroom should be lit so long as there is a reasonable amount of passing traffic .
This will often be until 23 : 00 or even later in some city centres .
The amount of lighting may however be reduced but it is recommended that as a minimum both the showroom display lighting and the lighting to the Brand Wall should be left on .
A timer can automatically turn the lighting off .
It is also necessary to note the material compatibility of the components to be cleaned in advance ( synthetic material , rubber , colour etc . )
FUNCTIONAL AREAS
The design considerations for the areas such as administration , workshop , warehouse and corridors are mainly functional and determined by the lighting levels required and local regulations .
SUMMARY OF LIGHTING LEVELS :
Dealership from outside :
500 - 1000 lux ( measured on the vertical surface ) .
Lights on the cars :
1500 - 3000 lux - A minimum of 3 display luminaires per car .
Background lights :
approx . 450 lux
Internal walls :
In general vacuum cleaners , brooms and non-fibre cloths are to be preferred for cleaning .
CUSTOMER AREAS :
General lighting level :
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - OBJECTIVES
Colour and high impact retail lighting
Maximum impact on product .
Latest technology fittings and lamps .
Flexible solutions for new and refurbishments .
Meet European regulations and work specifications .
Lighting is a fundamental element of the HQ facility and creates an exciting retail environment that enhances Vehicle Display both night and day .
Important :
Maximised light will emphasize openness and clarity through the use of excellent quality fixtures and lamps .
Complimentary functional lighting that is attractive and practical is used to light ancillary areas .
Interiors - Lighting Specification and Layouts - Revision 3
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - TEST SITE BIRMINGHAM
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - FINALISED OPTIONS
Alternative schemes specifications and costs provided by Artemide & Erco Lighting .
After cleaning remove all aids and check the function of the cleaned area .
United Kingdom
Tel . :
Optional schemes and specifications have been developed to enhance and provide a competitive price and quality standard .
Abeit both schemes vary in specification and approach , both will provide the type and quality of illumination required by HQ .
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - SHOWROOM LIGHTING LOW LEVEL CEILING
Warning
LINE
Artemide Architectural indoor .
TYPOLOGY
Adjustable recessed luminaire .
THE BODY
Series of rectangular recessed luminaires .
Single or multiple light sources .
Adjustable sphere in black steel , frame in grey metallic painted steel with scratch-proof opaque embossed finish .
THE VERSIONS
The adjustment of axis , components and movements of all types may only be exFTted by staff qualified for repairs and maintenance .
2 lamps - rectangular frame .
LIGHT SOURCES
12V dichroic halogen lamps .
EMISSIONS
-Light sources with integral reflector .
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - SHOWROOM LIGHTING HIGH LEVEL
Atemide .
TIPOLOGY
Recessed Gimble .
The affected area is to be closed off for the adjustments and secured by appropriate signs .
Recessed luminaire with three adjustable heads .
MATERIALS
Steel flange and gimbles finished silver grey EPC .
SOURCES
3 x CDM-R 70W or 35W Par 30 Ceramic metal handle .
CONTROL GEAR
Wire wound or Electronic .
APPROVAL
DIMENSIONS
Due to safety reasons the adjustments may not be exFTted by only one person .
525 x 205 x 189H .
470 x 170 cutout .
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - GENERAL OFFICE LIGHTING
Recessed downlights .
A series of recessed lighting devices made of high quality technopolymers .
The specific surface finishing treatment of the reflector makes it possible to realize high rendering optical elements , particularly resistant to pollution and to the abrasive action of handling .
The lighting devices also insure protection against vertically dripping water inside the recessed bay .
Thanks to the use of technopolymers , all lighting devices pass the 960 ° incandescent wire test .
The versions with magnetic control gear are fitted to hook the component bay on the optical bay ( thus making side-fitting possible in case of minimal recess depth ) .
Before adjustments are exFTted , the relevant technical documents are to be consulted .
The electronic ballast versions or those with emergency devices can only be side-fitted to the optical bay .
The fitting system , made of screw cursors , allows the device to be firmly positioned on irregularly thick panels ; the screw devices can be accessed from outside the fitting , after removing the flange or possible accessories by means of the handy and safe bayonet fit .
Even if it is set in an intermediary position , the fitting device can be engaged in the recess hole , thus preventing the technician from having to support the whole weight of the fitting and giving him maximum freedom of action as well as a great precision of movement .
The lighting device can be installed already fitted with the prescribed lights whereas the installation times are greatly reduced thanks to the use of quick coupling connectors in the electric connection .
For the connection to the mains , quick connecting devices are used and , after being fitted to the feed lines , make it possible to use both through-wirings with up to 2.5 mm diameter section conductors , and connection on several switches and 3-phase feed systems , and even ground connection for possible Class I users on the same line .
The electric connection device inputs have a screw less wire fitting system which can receive flexes with wiring of different sections ( from 1 to 2.5 mm2 ) .
Fittings are IP 44 if equipped with lenticular screen , IP 43 if remain open .
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - TASK LIGHTING
The instructions show whether the adjustments are to be exFTted from the station panel or externally ( mobile ) .
Table lamps .
DESIGNER
Table lamps with cantilevered structure ; fully rotational diffuser and system of spring balancing .
Available in three versions , each with an interchangeable support :
table base , clamp or desk fixed support in polished aluminium .
Structure in polished aluminium ; diffuser in matt anodised aluminium , joints and supports in polished aluminium .
COLOURS
aluminium or black
Any other manner than described in the instructions is not permitted .
aluminium , red , black or dark grey .
max 100W incandescent opaline ( E 27 ) - A 60 or 13W compact fluorescent ( G24 d-1 ) - TC-D , energy saving or max 50W / 12V halogen ( GY 6,35 ) -QT 12 .
max 100W incandescent opaline ( E 27 ) - A 60 or 13W compact fluorescent ( G24 d-1 ) - TC-D , energy saving .
max 40W incandescent opaline ( E 14 ) - D45 or max 60W halogen ( E 14 ) – QT 26 .
EMISSION
Direct adjustable .
max cm 122 x max cm 129h .
Relevant heights , lengths and interfering edges are to be taken from the instructions ( drawings ) .
max cm 102 x max cm 108h .
max cm 69 x max cm 73h .
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - RECEPTION LIGHTING
TALO S OSPENSIONE
Suspension lamps .
Four suspension cables are also feed cables .
High power fluorescent tubes guarantee major energy savings and greater light flow .
Dimensions :
available in three lengths according to the power of the light source :
All safety instructions concerning adjustments must be firmly observed .
90.5 cm ( 39W ) , 120.5 cm ( 54W ) , 150.5 cm ( 80W ) with or without dimmer .
Thermoplastic resin rose .
Painted aluminium body , transparent polycarbonate lower diffuser .
Silver grey or white .
39W ( G 5 ) - T 16 or 54W ( G 5 ) - T 16 or 80W ( G 5 ) - T 16 linear fluorescent , energy saving .
Dimmable or non dimmable .
Direct and indirect .
Available in three lengths according to the power of the light source :
90.5 cm ( 39W ) , 120.5 cm ( 54W ) , 150.5 cm ( 80W ) .
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - SHOWROOM LIGHTING LOW AND HIGH LEVEL
If uncertainties occur when adjusting , the manufacturer is to be consulted before continuing work .
GIMBAL 3 MULTI / HEAD
Mounting Frame :
Steel RAL 9006 .
Luminaire and Heat Sink :
Cast aluminium , black powder-coated .
Spot / Flood reflector :
Aluminium , silver , mirror-finish anodised .
Anti-dazzle ring :
Cast aluminium , black powder-coated , with anti dazzle cylinder , metal , black chrome-plated .
Fixing brackets for ceiling thickness 0-25mm .
As described in the chapter “ Repairs and Maintenance ” the measures for the examination of the work results must be equally applied .
Cardanic suspension of each luminaire within associated rings .
-40 0 tilt .
Supplied with 3 x Electronic Metal Halide Control Gear ( Input Voltage Range :
Electrical Connection :
requires only 1 x mains supply connection .
GIMBAL 3 METAL HALIDE
SPOT OR FLOOD
Gimbal 3s ( spot reflector )
Gimbal 3f ( flood reflector )
Datum to Reference hole
Adjustment
Luminaire Dimensions :
L598 W189 H150
Weight :
4.5 kg ( Excluding Control Gear ) , 5.5 kg ( including gear )
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - GENERAL OFFICE LIGHTING B
LIGHTCAST
TC-D DOWNLIGHTS
PRODUCT CODE
In principle the general instructions of the chapter “ Repairs and Maintenance ” also apply to the following chapters “ Hydraulic System Repairs and Maintenance ” .
Housing :
cast aluminium , designed as heat sink .
Junction box for through-wiring , 5-pole terminal block , integral cable clamp .
Electronic control gear .
Lampholder :
Darklight reflector :
aluminium , silver , bright anodised .
Mounting ring :
cast aluminium , white ( RAL9002 ) powder-coated .
Before working on a pneumatic system , important information is to be taken from the hydraulic plan :
Mounting without tools .
4-point support and screw fastening .
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - TASK LIGHTING B
LUCY TASK LIGHTS
Light head :
aluminium , internally and externally silver lacquered .
Switch .
cast magnesium , designed as heat sink .
Articulated arm :
Central or individual hydraulics ?
aluminium profile , silver anodised .
Force balancing by means of exposed stainless steel connecting rclip and concealed springs within the profile .
Hinges :
cast aluminium .
Plastic mouldings to set the cable at the correct angle ; exposed at hinges .
Mounting spigot with retaining washers for connection to mounting attachments .
Cable with 3-pin or Schuko plug and transformer ( for QT12 lamp ) , low-loss control gear ( for TC-T lamp ) , L 2500 .
aluminium , silver , mirror-finish anodised .
Safety glass matt on one side .
Is the hydraulic system equipped with a pressure tank ?
1.0 mm .
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - RECEPTION LIGHTING B
CYLINDER PENDANT
Cylinder :
aluminium , white ( RAL 9002 ) powder-coated .
Ventilation slots .
Control gear with thermal switch , Timed-ignitor and P . f . corrected .
Flood lens as safety glass above the Darklight reflector .
Suspension :
Does work on the hydraulic system cause movements ( e . g . lowering of an axis ) ?
pendant tube , white powder-coated , diam 13 , L1000 .
Canopy :
plastic , white , diam 64 . H 82 .
Interiors - Colours and Finishes - Revision 2
SUNRISE SILVER FINISH
HQ RED
BEIGE CERAMIC FLOOR TILE
GREY CARPET TILE
RETAIL WHITE
Before starting work , sufficient and appropriate oil pans must be available . .
WHITE WALL / CEILING FINISH
BEECH LAMINATE
CREAM LEATHER UPHOLSTERY
CHARCOAL GREY
LIGHT GREY
APPLICATION RULES – FIXTURES
POS FIXTURES - RECEPTION COUNTER ( STANDARD )
POS Fixtures - Revision 2
POS FIXTURES - RECEPTION COUNTER REAR ( STANDARD )
Add-1
The following precautions must be kept :
Insert and hold the screwdriver that was supplied with the lamp , or another screwdriver , into the hole at the rear or on the side , you can then remove the lamp cover .
Fully Recess
RECESS
Reflector Type :
POS FIXTURES - RECEPTION COUNTER DETAILS
80mm DIAM HOLE REQUIRED THRU TOP
REAR ELEVATION
END ELEVATION
PLAN
Safety disconnection - the stations must be switched off and secured according to the above description .
Counter formed in separate modules .
Carcass formed in 18mm MDF , all faces laminated in Thermopal laminate , ref F37 / 010 Buche 49 soft .
High level top laminated in K06 Esse Silver and is from D L Greaves .
Plinth in charcoal grey to match RAL 7021 .
Text to front of desk to be 65mm high in font HQ AG Medium Extended .
Continuous illumination to underside of counter top projection .
POS FIXTURES - RECEPTION COUNTER ( WITH STAND UP UNIT )
POS FIXTURES - RECEPTION COUNTER REAR ( WITH STAND UP UNIT )
POS FIXTURES - COMBINED RECEPTION / SALES DESK
Counter formed in 1 No . 1500mm module .
Triggered movements - if there is a risk of movements being triggered by a pressure drop , this movement is to be safeguarded .
Silver front desk element laminated in K06 Esse Silver and is from D L Greaves .
82mm diam hole
required thru top
front elevation
Detail line only .
Desk formed in 1 no complete unit
POS FIXTURES - PARTS COUNTER
POS FIXTURES - PARTS COUNTER REAR
POS FIXTURES - PARTS COUNTER DETAILS
First close the ball valve in the P-cable ( on the pump side ) , then close the ball valve in the T-cable .
High level top finished in Altro smooth vinyl ref 3059 Apex .
POS FIXTURES - BRANDWALL OPTIONS
POS FIXTURES - BRANDWALL REAR OPTION
POS FIXTURES - BRANDWALL DETAILS
Welcome
Brand Wall may be handed .
Brand Wall construction in softwood timber frame over clad in 12mm MDF and bendy ply or similar where appropriate .
Finishes are to main body K06 Esse Silver and is from D L Greaves .
Welcome section in red to match Pantone 200C .
Cupboard doors and top in thermopal laminate , ref F37 / 010 Buche 49 soft .
SFTre both ball valves against opening and attach a warning sign to both .
POS FIXTURES - BRANDWALL - WALL MOUNTED OPTION
POS FIXTURES - BRANDWALL - WALL MOUNTED OPTION DETAILS
POS FIXTURES - MERCHANDISE - ACCESSORIES
2000mm High Wall Mounted Units .
POS FIXTURES - MERCHANDISE – ACCESSORIES
SIDE ELEVATION
SECTION
Unit formed in mild steel box section subframe , over clad in soft wood timber frame , inished with 18mm mdf .
Spray paint finish gloss white Ref ACI promatch to pattern PM 2448 – 90 % white .
Display cabinet for high value items .
Individual hydraulic - switch off the pump “ individual hydraulics ” and secure it from being switched on again ( attach warning signs ) .
Outer wall form in 2no layers of 5mm bendy ply .
Doors formed in 7.4 mm laminated clear glass , lockable with 2no cam locks .
All internal shelves to be adjustable .
Merchandise graphic panel formed 9mm mdf , spray finish charcoal grey ref RAL 7021 .
Red accent to match pantone 200c .
Text in white vinyl adhesive text .
Font HQ AG Medium Extended .
POS FIXTURES - MERCHANDISE - ACCESSORIES DETAILS
POS Fixtures - Revision 2 .
Unit formed in mild steel box section subframe , over clad in soft wood timber frame , finished with 18mm mdf .
If the cable system is equipped with ball valves , these must be closed as described in the previous paragraph “ Central Hydraulics ” .
Spray paint finish gloss white Ref . ACI promatch to pattern PM 2448 – 90 % white .
Plinth colour Charcoal Grey Ral 7021 .
Unit to display minimum of 4no garments on the hanging rail .
SFTrity tags to be used on all items .
Slot wall to be used on this unit for display flexibility .
Display smaller garments i . e T shirts etc on lower shelves .
No part of this publication may be reproduced without our prior written permission .
Merchandise graphic panel formed 9mm mdf , spray finish charcoal grey ref Ral 7021 .
POS FIXTURES - HQ SERVICES
POS FIXTURES - HQ SERVICES DETAILS
Hydraulic system with pressure tank - depressurise pressure tank , note the warning sign on the pressure tank “ pressure operation ” .
Portrait
Landscape
Unit to display 10no A4 Landscape + 6 A5 portrait documents .
Shelves formed in clear acrylic , with a solid outer frame finished in above white .
HQ Service graphic panel formed 9mm mdf , spray finish charcoal grey ref Ral 7021 . Red accent to match pantone 200c .
POS FIXTURES - WHEEL OPTIONS
POS FIXTURES - WHEEL OPTIONS DETAILS
Opening of the hydraulic system - check pressure on the manometer .
Wheel Options
Size
Unit to display 6no wheels to a maximum size of 17 ” .
Pricing and sales information to be contained at the top of the unit .
In a folded clear acrylic pocket , A5 landscape size .
Fixed on Velcro to main unit .
Wheel graphic panel formed 9mm mdf , spray finish charcoal grey ref Ral 7021 . Red accent to match pantone 200c .
POS FIXTURES - AUDIO NAVIGATION ( EUROPE ONLY )
POS FIXTURES - AUDIO NAVIGATION ( EUROPE ONLY ) DETAILS
Place an appropriate vessel under the screw connection to be opened .
Speakers
OEM unit
DIN unit
power supply unit
extra shelf to carry PSU
tube light to illuminate glass vitrine
glass shelf
glass door with hinges & lock
Audio Navigation graphic panel formed 9mm mdf , spray finish charcoal grey ref Ral 7021 . Red accent to match pantone 200c .
If a hydraulic cylinder is pressed together by a load at an open hydraulic system the surplus oil will be pressed out of the system .
The equipment for these units will be as follows :
For the radio cabinet :
6 radio ' s ( set of speakers will be supplied by Unicam )
For the navigation cabinet :
2 ( DIN size ) navigation units + 1 DIN size Navigation ROM unit + a separate monitor + remote control unit .
Unit to display Audio and Navigation equipment .
The projecting unit to be produced by Unicam to their details and spec and equipment .
Unit to be attached to standard C module .
POS FIXTURES - HQ SERVICES LOW LEVEL
1400mm High Central Floor Units .
Replacements of components - only spare parts which correspond to the technical requirements of the manufacturer may be used .
Units may be used Single unit , Double unit
and in groups of 4 back to back .
POS FIXTURES - HQ SERVICES LOW LEVEL DETAILS
A5 Portrait
A4 Landscape
Units may be used Single unit , Double unit and in groups of 4 back to back .
Unit formed in timber subframe , over clad in 18mm mdf .
Unit to display 6no A4 landscape + 3no A5 portrait .
When working on the open hydraulic system , no foreign parts or debris may be allowed to enter the system .
POS FIXTURES - MERCHANDISE - ACCESSORIES LOW LEVEL
POS FIXTURES - MERCHANDISE - ACCESSORIES LOW LEVEL DETAILS
Unit formed timber subframe , over clad with 18mm mdf .
Doors formed in 7.4 mm laminated clear glass on sliding rails , lockable with 2no cam locks .
Internal glass shelves to be fully adjustable .
Display smaller garments i . e T shirts etc on shelves .
POS FIXTURES - WHEEL OPTIONS LOW LEVEL
POS FIXTURES - WHEEL OPTIONS LOW LEVEL DETAILS
Please refer to drawing
Interrupted Work - if work on the open hydraulic system is interrupted , all openings must be closed by appropriate means ( e . g . plugs ) .
Unit to display 3no wheels to a maximum size of 17 ” .
Units Ideally used back to back to display 6 wheels in total .
Wheel brackets in mild steel , finish Ral 9006 silver .
POS FIXTURES - RAPID SERVICE INFORMATION AND POSTER DISPLAY
Unit size 1400 x 900 x 350mm
POS FIXTURES - COLOUR AND TRIM UNIT
POS FIXTURES - SPECIFICATION LECTERN
Unit size 1200 x 350mm
POS FIXTURES - SPECIFICATION LECTERN DETAILS
Since some of the most commonly removed parts have a direct bearing on a vehicle ’ s reliability and safety , conscientious pre-sale assembly and preparation becomes extremely important .
After finishing work
DETAIL
Unit formed in 3mm 10swg mild steel , powder coated Silver Sunrise .
Complete with 2 No . A4 landscape information slots .
POS FIXTURES - CHILDRENS PLAY UNITS
Unit size option 2 , 1200 x 1200mm
POS FIXTURES - CHILDRENS PLAY UNIT DETAILS
Unit size 1800 x 1800mm x 50mm thick
floor
check work carefully ,
MDF panel width
MDF panel height
o / a height
Beech capping
o / a width
2mm deep ' V ' groove at 25mm centres
19mm Beech veneered MDF
GROOVE DETAIL
Timber walls in beech laminate MDF .
Main floor panel vinyl covering ref US396 Alabaster .
remove the remaining oil ( danger of fire and slipping ) ,
Bolster vinyl covering ref US385 Parchment .
Edge floor panels vinyl covering ref US385 Parchment .
Floor and Bolster to be padded .
POS FIXTURES - WALL PANELLING
Timber Walls in Beech Veneer MDF
POS FIXTURES - WALL PANELLING DETAILS
beech capping to return to wall
' V ' groove in veneer to front face
grain direction to run horizontally
MDF board will have to be jointed in the middle using biscuit jointing
open ball valves ( first T-cable then P-cable ) and in the case of an individual hydraulic , switch on the pump ,
panel height
Typical size only
panel width
Wall panelling formed in 18mm steamed beech veneered MDF board , on soft wood timber sub frame .
Panel face to have v grove detail as indicated , finished in clear lacquer .
POS FIXTURES - HOSPITALITY UNIT
POS FIXTURES - HOSPITALITY UNIT DETAILS
Chair and table frames formed in chromed aluminium , chairs upholstered in cream leather ( or leatherette to approved sample ) to match Muirhead Shetland Stone .
Table tops formed in 30mm MDF laminated with Thermopal beech laminate ref F37 / 010 BUCHE BLUME ( 49 ) SOFT .
POS FIXTURES - COFFEE TABLE
the exposed pressure can possibly trigger movements ,
POS FIXTURES - COFFEE TABLE DETAILS
Table formed in soft wood timber frame , over clad in bendy ply , finished in a white high gloss lacquer with timber veneer inlay strip to centre .
POS FIXTURES - POSTER FRAME
POS FIXTURES - POSTER FRAME DETAILS
SIDE
Unit formed in MDF .
Finished in white high gloss lacquer .
position of split battens
viewable area
remove supports and blocks carefully ,
sized back panel
POS Fixtures - Minimum Requirements - Revision 2
NB :
NSC TO DETERMINE DEFINITION OF SMALL , MEDIUM AND LARGE
Reception Counter
Service Counter
Brand Wall or Brand Panel
Specification Lectern * *
Hospitality Unit and Four Stools
Tall or Low Retail Fixtures *
check for leaks ,
Information & Poster Display Unit
Colour and Trim Display * *
Kids Play Mat & Toys
Poster Frames
Wood Accent Wall
Sales Desk and Three Chairs
Customer Coffee Table & Four Chairs
Decoration
Rapid Service Information & Poster Display Unit
Service Banners
check the oil level and if necessary replace losses ,
Two Modules
Optional
One Unit
To all New Vehicles
Yes – No . required related to showroom size
Neutralisation + Showroom
Required for members of Rapid Service Program
Min . Three Modules
Four Modules
Yes
carry out movements ( e . g . cylinder ) in order to expel air from the system ,
One Set per Sales Person
One Set
Six Modules
Neutralisation + All Areas
* Retail Fixtures comprise of Brochure Holder , Accessory Unit , Merchandise Unit , Audio / Navigation Unit , Alloy Wheel Unit
* * Already procured via NE Purchasing Dept
Neutralisation means removal of old Network 2000 items and HQ blue Optional means that Dealer may take one if he does not have one now .
However , if Dealer possesses unit now he must replace with new version
APPLICATION RULES - POS FIXTURES
POS Fixtures - Application Rules - Revision 2
Bolt ,
put the station into operation again .
All Fixtures shall be in accordance with the Standards Manual and all associated approved engineering designs , drawings and specification .
No design , engineering , material , colour or typography variances are allowed .
All existing Fixtures shall be removed and there shall never be sites with a mixture of old and new Fixtures .
Dealer logos shall not be applied to Fixtures .
The HQ Brand Symbol should not appear on any Fixtures except as provided on the Brand Wall .
Wall units may be located away from the walls but the substantial height of certain units must be noted in respect of customer visibility , dealer control and facility security .
Furniture and internal signs are not part of the Fixtures program ( See elsewhere ) .
All cables shall be concealed and not create a safety hazard .
All Fixtures to be secured to walls and floors as required preventing instability or tipping .
Fixtures should not block lights , ventilation or heating vents .
In principle the general instructions of the chapter “ Repairs and Maintenance ” also apply to the following chapters “ Pneumatic System Repairs and Maintenance ” .
At ceiling level .
RECEPTION COUNTER
Sit down , stand up and split level counters are available for showroom receptions , service areas and parts departments .
The Reception Counter shall be adjacent to the Main Entrance and the associated Entry Element in the showroom .
The receptionist should be able to see the display vehicles , customer parking , showroom hospitality areas and other customer entrances from the counter .
The Reception Counter may be parallel or perpendicular to the main entrance , must be visible to customers on entry via the primary entrance and adjacent to the customer zone .
The Reception Counter shall comprise of a minimum of three modules .
The Reception Counter may be straight , L shape , C shape or square shape .
All counter corners possess 90 degree angles .
Shared counters with Service and Parts are possible .
Before working on a pneumatic system , important information is to be taken from the pneumatic plans :
Combined reception and Sales Desk versions are available for very small facilities .
BRAND WALL
The Brand Wall must be visible by customers entering through the primary entrance .
If possible , the Brand Wall should be visible by all customers irrespective of the point of entry to the showroom adjacent to the reception desk .
The Brand Wall shall suit the size of the showroom and may be freestanding or wall mounted .
Notwithstanding this , freestanding Brand Walls are preferred for New Build facilities .
Only one Brand Wall shall be installed at each facility .
Standard TV ’ s or Plasma Screen TV ’ s can be used on the rear counter if separate TV stands are inappropriate .
The Brand Symbol on the Brand Wall is non-illuminated but should be highlighted via ceiling display lighting provided by the Dealer .
VEHICLE SPECIFICATION STANDS
Cutting off the compressed air - the intake of compressed air is to be cut off at an appropriate position .
All new vehicles presented in the showroom must each possess a Vehicle Specification Stand .
INFORMATION / ACCESSORIES / MERCHANDISE / COLOUR AND TRIM DISPLAYS
The display units shall be adjacent to the customer lounge and the Showroom .
It is preferred that they are seen from the primary entrance .
Tall units should generally be placed up against solid walls .
Lower units are available for other areas of the showroom .
Larger no . of modules can be placed back to back freestanding projecting into the middle of the showroom .
Dealers should obtain the related accessories , merchandise , colour and trim swatches , and other POS materials graphics from their Distributor .
Additional fittings are available if required for better presentation purposes .
HOSPITALITY UNITS
Ventilation of the system – compressed air must be expelled from the system to be repaired / maintained before dismantling the pneumatic components .
Both the Children ’ s Play Area and Hospitality Unit shall be located adjacent to the Reception within the customer zone .
The Children ’ s Play Area should , at all possible , be visible from all the parts of the Showroom .
The hospitality unit is a ‘ dry system ’ requiring power but not water .
WALL PANELLING
Each and every Dealership should possess an accent of beech wood to warm up and soften the Customer Lounge area .
Horizontal stripes of wood paneling should be avoided .
The beech wood should match furniture , fixtures and door facings where possible .
Furniture - Contents - Revision 2
APPLICATION RULES – FURNITURE
FURNITURE - SALES AREA
Information
Furniture - Revision 2
FURNITURE - SALES DESK DETAILS
Chair and table frames formed in chromed aluminium , chairs upholstered in cream leather ( or leatherette to approved sample ) to match Muirhead Shetland stone .
Table tops formed in 30mm MDF laminated with Thermopal Beech laminate ref F37 / 010 BUCHE BLUME ( 49 ) SOFT .
FURNITURE - SALES SCREEN DETAILS
o / a depth
glass width
glass height
Screen formed in 10.4 mm clear laminated glass , with etched detail to internal face .
Supporting structure formed silver aluminium extrusion , base weighted with 10mm mild steel plates for stability .
Replacements of components - spare parts may only be used which correspond to the technical requirements of the manufacturer .
FURNITURE - CONSULTATION CHAIRS DETAILS
Furniture - Revision 2.620
FURNITURE - SALES CONSULTATION AREA
FURNITURE - CONSULTATION TABLE DETAILS
FURNITURE - CUSTOMER ZONE
FURNITURE - SOFT SEATING DETAIL
FURNITURE - COFFEE TABLE DETAIL
FURNITURE - HOSPITALITY AREA
Furniture - Revision 2 .
FURNITURE - HOSPITALITY COUNTER AND STOOL DETAILS
When working on the open pneumatic system . no foreign parts or debris may be allowed to enter the system .
Table tops formed in 30mm mdf laminated with Thermopal Beech laminate ref F37 / 010 BUCHE BLUME ( 49 ) SOFT .
APPLICATION RULES - FURNITURE
Furniture - Application Rules - Revision 2
THE STANDARD OF FURNITURE ILLUSTRATES THE DEALER ’ S COMMITMENT TO HIS CUSTOMERS AND HIS STAFF
Furniture must be of a quality consistent with other elements of the showroom .
Whilst portraying an efficient business environment it must also be comfortable and welcoming for customers .
Styling should be modern and distinctive but understated .
It should be good quality but not excessively expensive , overpowering , or ‘ flashy ’ .
Seating in the customer areas should be flexible and easy to use .
There should be visible contact with the reception and adjacent to merchandise and accessories .
Interrupted Work - if work on the open pneumatic system is interrupted , all opening must be closed by appropriate means ( e . g . plugs )
A mixture of individual seating , and convenient low tables should be provided and be adjacent to various media .
Hospitality in the form of tea and coffee and cold soft drinks should be served to waiting customers .
The hospitality unit requires an electrical supply but not necessarily water .
Vending machines should not be used .
HQ brochures , current magazines and daily papers should be available .
Adjacent to the hospitality unit , customers will have an opportunity to sit at a counter with bar stools offering a more relaxed style of waiting .
This may be within the customer waiting area or adjacent to the window into the workshop .
The seating should be fully padded and upholstered using good quality fabrics .
The colour of the fabric should be beige leather or approved good quality leatherette .
Brushed aluminium , chrome or stainless steel legs and bases are acceptable , however the amount of bright chrome should not be dominant .
After finishing work :
The arm rests may or may not be upholstered .
CONFIDENTIAL AREAS / SALES NEGOTIATION
It is important that customers feel relaxed and comfortable whilst discussing the purchase of a vehicle and therefore customers should have a choice between open , semi-private and private offices .
Under all circumstances the customer must be shown to have equal status with the sales person , and the area should be neutral private offices , with glazed screens , are to be adjacent to the showroom and the semi-private sales area to be around the perimeter of the showroom but avoiding the primary glazed elevation .
Open areas may then be distributed within the showroom amongst the vehicles as appropriate .
Furniture should not be of the same style as the customer area but relevant to the task in hand .
Sales desks may have modern task lamps .
Areas should be kept clean and tidy and the use of a pedestal storage unit in sunrise silver will help .
The furniture in these areas should be comfortable but also business like , including a table at a convenient height for laying out papers , and possibly a computer screen for efficient accessing of information .
Semi-private screens are glass with safety stripes .
You have several options to do this :
open the valve in the admission ( the exposed pressure can possibly trigger movements ) ,
OPEN SEATING
It is a good idea to provide casual seating , around the showroom , encouraging customers to spend longer looking at the vehicles and brochures without requiring a sales person .
At peak periclip , these desks can double up as a sales point if necessary .
ADMIN TABLES , DESKS AND OFFICE FURNITURE
Desks and general office furniture should be modern displaying a relaxed but efficient image .
The quality must be high but not excessively luxurious or opulent .
Tables and desks should be in beech laminate with brushed aluminium , chrome or stainless steel legs and bases .
Other Buildings - Contents - Revision 2
DUAL FRANCHISE SITE CATEGORY 3a
Other Buildings - Dual Franchise Site Category 3a - Revision 2
search for leak ,
1.1 INTRODUCTION
GOALS
This document presents and illustrates the recommendation for common back-office standards in the Renault and HQ network .
This recommendation only applies to Category 3a dealerships .
CATEGORY 3a
This category , which presents the most significant risk for the respective Brand images , shall be managed with extreme care and shall therefore be restricted to a limited number of dealerships .
CHOSEN PRINCIPLES
The following principles have been adopted :
Uphold the identity and differentiation between Renault and HQ brands in order to optimise the sales and potential yield of each brand
Maintain separate and exclusive brand identity standards at each point of customer contact ( front office functions )
In principle the general instructions of the chapter “ Repairs and Maintenance ” also apply to the following chapters “ Repairs and Maintenance of Electrical Equipment ” .
Develop synergies in procedures and in back-office functions ( i . e . functions with no or limited customer contact )
APPLICATION PROCEDURE
To protect Brand image , both Renault and HQ visual identity departments will monitor closely the development and application of the standards .
The Partner must demonstrate that total Brand separation is maintained .
2 STANDARDS DEFINED
BRAND IMAGE
Customers areas should be distinct ( Rapid Service , Reception , Showroom , entrance , Customers Parking ) .
Full branding for customer faced areas
Exterior branding for back-office ( brand visibility )
SYNERGIES
Danger
Some Back-Office activities can be shared ( Warehouse , Workshop , Bodyshop ) .
Construction of the building ( construction costs reduced by 18 % ) = reduced overheads
Management and administration
Organisation and productivity = common work flows and activities
Shared production ( Workshop , Bodyshop , Parts )
Interior neutral signage ( Workshop , Bodyshop , Warehouse )
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
All front-office areas are separated .
Otherwise , back office areas are 100 % common .
LIMITS
The maintenance also includes “ regular examinations ” for electrical machines ( observing , testing and measuring ) according to the corresponding national / international norms , rules and accident prevention specifications . .
No dual branding of points must be tolerated :
eg Service entrances .
FRONT OFFICE
The front-office areas are shown only as an illustration and need to be defined for each new building following each manufacturer ' s standards .
1.3 BACK-OFFICE ORGANISATION
2.1 - CHARACTERISTICS
STANDARD RECOMMENDATION
EXCEPTION ‘ MINIMUM BRANDED ’
CONDITIONS :
Before working on the electrical equipment , the following safety precautions are to be exFTted in the following order !
( CHOICE OF THE MINIMUM BRANDED RECOMMENDATION )
New Vehicles
Used Vehicles
BACK OFFICE
External Signage
Interior Branding
STAFF CLOTHING
Productives
Managers *
BRANDED
Clear station ,
BRANDED NEUTRAL
NEUTRAL NEUTRAL
BRANDED BRANDED
Choice of theminimum branded solution ONLY if :
Single common workshop entrance
Customer limited visibility and access to back office
* Managers ’ clothing will be necessarily neutral when there is one Manager who works for the two brands
2.2 FRONT-OFFICE
The Standards for this category are :
The showrooms must be completely separated by a non-transparent wall .
Check free voltage ,
No connecting doors are allowed .
Service reception facilities must be distinct ( access through the respective showrooms ) .
VISIBILITY :
A visual balance between the Brands must be maintained therefore the following standards have been agreed :
Length of Front Elevation ( and therefore fascia ) :
proportion between 50 % : 50 % and 67 % : 33 % , even where proportion of business volume for one brand is larger than 67 % .
SIGNAGE :
Common proportions and elevation of fascia , pylon , and directional signage .
ENTRANCE :
Distinct entrance from the street for each Brand .
Safeguard against restarting ,
CUSTOMER PARKING :
Distinct for each brand .
TYPICAL MAIN FRONTAGE FOR COMMON BACK-OFFICE SITES
Separated showrooms allow a separate and exclusive brand identity .
Common functions ( back-office ) are positioned in the middle of the building achieving to separate the front-office ( and the fascias on the front part of the building ) .
Aftersales areas ( with common mechanical and bodyshop workshops ) are not dedicated to one brand .
So they receive neutral items such as signage , painting and finishing .
Secondary fascias signs , directional and activity signs are dedicated to each brand .
Only interior signage keeps neutral items .
This layout is an example .
Connect to ground and shorting ,
The specific layout will vary according to each building and the brand volumes .
Putting back-office activities together leads to a compromise in the layout in certain areas ( eg . customer entrance ) .
2.3 TYPICAL LAYOUT OF A SITE - CATEGORY 3a
3.1 EXTERIOR SIGNAGE
COMMON AND SEPARATED ENTRANCES TO WORKSHOPS
KEY
HQ SECONDARY FRONTAGE
Directional signboard
Activity signboard
It is not advisable to join more then 2 consFTtive metres of pipe length to the T junction .
FRONT ' ' A ' ' EMBLEM
Cover or block neighbouring voltage parts .
Secondary fascia « Mechanics »
Secondary fascia « Bodywork »
RENAULT SECONDARY FRONTAGE
Bracket mounted identification sign
Wall mounted identification sign
3 . DUAL FRANCHISE SITE CATEGORY 3a
2.5 SPARE PARTS COUNTER
PRINCIPLE
Situated inside the respective showrooms , the spare parts counter is separate for each brand and clearly identified by the interior signage systems and associated furnishings specific to each brand .
WAREHOUSE RECEPTION
Tools and Measuring Systems
Situated in the common part of the building , the warehouse reception should be neutral .
Excepted workers , only trade partners would see this particular place for deliveries on the back of the building .
2.6 INTERIOR OF WORKSHOPS
In this recommendation , workshop access is not allowed to customers .
Branding of the mechanical workshop and bodyshop should be neutral .
Suspended identification panel Typeface Trade Gothic Bold
Manufacturers overall for Technicians
Equipment ; Light grey RAL 7040
Walls ; Satin finish white RAL 9010
Wall ( down part ) ; Medium grey RAL 7045
It must be especially noted that only appropriate , voltage isolated tools are used for repairs and maintenance .
Floor ; Light grey RAL 7004
Ceilings ; White
COMMON ENTRANCES TO WORKHOPS
In this recommendation , access to workshop are not allowed to customers .
For any entrances to workshop , neutral signage can be used instead of corporate identities items .
Directional signboard Typeface Trade Gothic Bold , Arrows , Pantone Grey 432 .
Bracket mounted identification sign , Typeface Trade Gothic Bold Pantone Grey 432 .
Wall mounted identification sign Typeface Trade Gothic Bold .
Background Pantone Cool Grey 3C .
Measurements during the operation or after clearing of a station may only be exFTted using appropriate measuring instruments .
Line Pantone Cool Grey 3C .
Background White RAL 9010 .
In this exceptional case , aftersales areas ( with common mechanical and bodyshop workshops ) are not dedicated to one brand .
Although they are clearly separated with fences from other areas , they receive neutral items such as signage , painting and finishing .
PLEASE REFER TO UNIFORM SECTION
4.1 OVERALLS
Bodyshop and mechanical workers must use overalls clearly identified to each brand .
Any cohabitation between graphical standards on overalls is to be strictly avoided .
The number of technicians is defined according to each brand ' s park and standards .
PARTICULAR CASE
Observation of Safety Instructions
If there is only one manager for the two brands , he should wear neutral suit without any distinctive sign of brands .
5.1 SERVICE VEHICLES
Bodyshop vehicles and mechanical vehicles must be identified to each brand .
Any cohabitation between the graphical standards used by each brand on service vehicles is to be strictly avoided .
Uniforms - Contents - Revision 2
HQ WORKWEAR
Uniforms - Revision 2
WORK JACKET
FLEECE
V-NECK FLEECE
It is principally prohibited to check the components of the electrical equipment during operation by pulling out plugs as this may cause a dangerous operating condition .
GILET
L / SLEEVE T-SHI RT
L / SLEEVE POLO SHIRT
T-SHI RT
COMBATS
POLO SHIRT
BOILER SUIT
AFTER WORK JACKET
WORK JACKET & COMBATS
The safety instructions of the individual components of the equipment are to be observed .
Vehicles - Contents - Revision 2
LIVERY
Vehicles - Livery - Revision 2
Corporate Signs - Contents - Revision 2
CORPORATE SIGNS - DESIGN
Corporate Signs - Design - Revision 2
HQ BRAND SYMBOL
STRIPED PATTERN SHEET ( ENTIRE BACKGROUND )
PROTRUDING
ACCENT LINE NVR-01
The touching of voltage parts - even after separation from the network - can be dangerous .
COMPANY OR FACILITY NAME ( ROMAN LETTERING ) HQAG BOLD NVB 01
ALIGNED
( PATTERN PITCH )
THICKNESS OF ACCENT LINE )
PYLONS
Pylons are as the new car showroom Pylons i . e . 3.6 m , 4.8 m and 6m height subject to Planning Approval .
They are constructed of ACM but with a horizontal silver striped vinyl applied to the external faces ( 50mm pitch ) .
The Brand Symbol is Illuminated and the pylon includes the company name in black .
( THICKNESS OF ACCENT LINE )
HQBRAND SYMBOL 3D
Alterations to the Electrical Equipment
COMPANY OR FACILITY NAME ( ROMAN LETTERING ) HQAG BOLD .
MONUMENT SIGNS
To be used as a substitute to the Pylon where Planning Approval is refused or visibility to the building is restricted .
The striped vinyl is the same as for the Pylon .
Flags can be used at the entrances to the site and are the same size and specification as those detailed in the Design and Application Rules – Flags .
Flags can be used instead of , as well as in conjunction with the Pylon .
If the Flags are to be used on the same site as existing Renault Flags they must be specified in the same numbers and size as the Renault Flags .
Neither of the two brands should be dominant over the other .
The size and positioning of Flags are subject to local authority approval and their proximity to the highway should be considered .
The red HQ Wordmark can be used as a direct replacement to any existing silver versions subject to Planning Approval .
Replacements of Components
The size is dependent on the existing Wordmark and can be faced fixed at high level at the top of the building or at roof level using a suitable framework structure but subject to local Building Control .
In the case of a roof mounted Wordmark sufficient support structure must be provided and safe access must be available for maintenance and replacement .
In all cases the position and size of the Wordmark is subject to approval from the local authorities .
It is worth noting that adopting a standard sized HQ Wordmark , as specified in the Dealer signage catalogue , will be more economical as non-standard sized letters will be custom made and attract a premium price .
In all cases the Wordmark is illuminated using LED ’ s therefore reducing maintenance costs .
HQ WORDMARK ARTWORK
POSITIONING OF THE HQ WORDMARK TO THE BUILDING : -
DIRECTIONAL / NAVIGATION SIGNS
Directional signage navigating visitors around the site are the same style and size as the dealership signs .
: Apply body primer to exposed paint as shown .
Spare parts may only be used which correspond to the technical requirements of the manufacturer .
They are constructed in ACM and have horizontal silver striped vinyl applied to the external faces ( 50mm pitch ) .
Directional / Navigation Signs are non-illuminated .
As with the Pylon and Monument signs the Directional / Navigation signage have 50mm pitch striped vinyl applied to the front and rear faces .
In the case of a Dual Headquarters ( HQ and Renault ) Secondary Signs should be manufactured in a neutral style and colour and not favour either brand .
Internal signage should be restricted to the main entrance / reception areas and consists of either wall mounted ( single sided ) , hanging or projecting ( double sided ) signs .
In all case the signs are constructed of ACM and have a horizontal striped finish ( 30mm pitch ) which is achieved by spray painting and not using the horizontal striped vinyl as specified on the Pylon and Directional signs .
NON-ENGLISH LANGUAGE
ENGLISH
Miscellaneous - Contents - Revision 2
SUPPLIERS LIST
Only those fuse links as described in the operation instructions , regarding the size and intensity of current , may be used .
Silver Sunrise Metallic 600
Composite panels
Nederland ( * 8 )
Alterations of the software are not permitted !
Deutschland ( * )
This applies to all software packages , including all parameters , which were programmed and / or delivered with the station by “ Johann A Krause UK Ltd ” .
Suisse ( * )
Phone :
It is also not permitted to alter software , including parameters , which are linked to the station software .
NIHON ( Japan )
Phone : + 81-3-3287 -8124
Miscellaneous - Suppliers List - Revision 2
EXTERNAL CLADDING
If alterations are made to the described software - even if the instructions of the software manufacturers are observed - “ Johann A Krause UK Ltd ” will not assume any liability for resulting damages !
Nederland ( * )
CERAMIC TILES
( SHOWROOM )
Italia ( * )
Parameters which are foreseen for the variable structuring of test and assembly processes are not subject to the alteration restriction .
x 40 cm ) or
Stone – Limestone Beige ( 30 cm x 30
CARPET
However , the alterations may not exceed the allowed limits .
Milliken Colour Chalk ,
Pattern Design 609
United Kingdom ( * )
( R3 ) START STEPPER :
Mobil :
Ö sterreich ( * )
CARPET EDGING
Gradus , AFT55 Colour Granite
starts the stepper feeder .
CANTEEN FLOORING
E-mail :
CEILINGS
: Apply body primer to any exposed paint as shown .
parts required , vibrator running .
France ( * )
web :
( R4 ) STOP STEPPER :
stops the stepper feeder .
Madera 2887 Velour or
Indicator block background is grey when stopped and green when runnning .
Espa ñ a ( * )
( R7 ) RAISE LH PUSHER :
raises the left hand plug pusher .
Customer Service
Lighting Design
parts required , vibrator running and plug present .
LEATHER
Shetland Stone
Scotland ( * )
LEATHERETTE
( R8 ) LOWER LH PUSHER :
Web site :
PAI NT
ICI RAL 9016 White
ICI RAL 7042 Light Grey
ICI RAL 7021 Charcoal Grey
lowers the left hand plug pusher .
( R9 ) RAISE RH PUSHER :
Republique Francaise ( * )
FLAGS AND POLES
Contact person :
Mobile :
email :
Order via :
FIXTURES
Please make contact with your NSC or RPM
Left secand row seat , 3Right secand row seat , 2
raises the right hand plug pusher .
MotorcycleAssembly & PreparationManual
Foreword
AREAS :
In order to ship your vehicles as efficiently as possible , they are partially disassembled before crating .
Corridor
Customer W aiting
Kitchen & Toilet
Main Showroom
Windows
( R10 ) LOWER RH PUSHER :
CEILING HEIGHT :
Above 3m
Below 3m
Colour finish type :
Colour Rendering Group :
Colour :
Dimensions L / W / H
lowers the right hand plug pusher .
Lamp type :
Lamp Wattage :
Light Output Ratio :
LIGHTING AND LAYOUTS - SPECIFICATION SHEET
LUMINAIRE TYPE A
LUMINAIRE TYPE B
LUMINAIRE TYPE C
( R1 ) SCAN LABEL :
LUMINAIRE TYPE D
LUMINAIRE TYPE E
LUMINAIRE TYPE G
LUMINAIRE TYPE J
LUMINAIRE TYPE L
Luminous flux :
METAL ANODISED
Module
MOUNTING T YPE :
F ully Recess
sends a signal out via the PLC to scan the label .
Mounting Type :
MOUNTING TYPE :
Ceiling Tile Grid
Fully Recess Lay in
Pendant
Recess
Number of lamps :
PENDANT
POWDER COATED
Needs to be kept pressed for the function to continue .
Product Brand :
Product Code :
Product name :
RA85 . LUMINAIRE SPECIFICATION
RA90 . LUMINAIRE SPECIFICATION
RECE SS
Reflector T ype :
SATIN REFLEC T OR
Indicator block background is grey before scan and red when scan complete .
SEE ABOVE
SEMI RECESS
SILVER
SILVER METALIC
SPFTLAR ANODISED LOUVRE
SPUN ALUMINIUM
part in load station and bypass selected .
WHITE
WHITE TRIM
Minimum selectivity criteria
This document is to read in conjunction with the new selectivity criteria - For RVI
DRAWING TEXT NEW PASSENGER CAR FACILITIES
Retail Signs - New Car Showroom - Revision 4
OPTION 4
Stand Alone New Car Showroom with
If both are tested as filled the block will be released as a good part .
Service facility .
Rapid Service facility .
Passenger - and NE RVI Minimum Selectivity Requirements - One sign per Customer Parking space
Sales - Minimum requirement
Service Reception - Minimum requirement
Delivery Reception - Minimum requirement
Workshop / Parts Reception - Minimum requirement
DRAWING TEXT STAND ALONE SERVICE WORKSHOPS
As Option 2 above but accepted
alternative where space or permit allows .
INDEX ASSEMBLY
Retail Signs -Stand Alone Service Workshop -Revision 4 8 .
DELETE And used car facilities - and NE RVI Minimum
Selectivity Requirements DELETE And used car facilities
DRAWING TEXT STAND ALONE RAPID SERVICE OUTLETS
Minimum requirements for a Stand Alone
Rapid Service facility where space or
permit preclude the use of the pylon , i .
e
Entrance Panel , Rapid Service signage
and panel .
Leak Test Program Parameters .
R / H CARRIAGE ASSEMBLY
Opptional additional signage where
space or permit is not a problem , i .
e .
HQ Rapid Service Pylon , Entrance
Panel and Fascia .
Rapid Service signage
and panel and HQ Wordmark .
Retail Signs -Stand Alone Rapid Service Outlet -Revision 4
DELETE AND USEDCAR FACILITIES - and NE RVI Minimum
Selectivity Requirements
L / H CARRIAGE ASSEMBLY
DELETE Rapid Service
DRAWING TEXT DELIVERY OUTLETS
Retail Signs - Delivery Outlets - Revision 4
Minimum requirements , i .
e . Louvre
Fascia , HQ Wordmark , Dealername
letters , Entrance Panel , Delivery Outlet
Pylon and Navigation signs .
Alternative to Option 1 above but with
Delivery Outlet letters instead of
LOCTITE APPLICATOR ASSEMBLY
Dealername .
DELIVERY OUTLETS
Accepted alternative to Option 2 but
with Delivery Outlet Projecting Sign
where space or permit preclude the use
of a Delivery Outlet Pylon .
Retail Signs -Delivery Outlets -Revision 4
SEE FILE - APPL RUL DELIV AUT
CUP PLUG ESCAPEMENT ASSEMBLY
Signs
Text
CORPORATE & FINANCIAL
Candidature
Sales candidature
The candidate company and / or the candidate management must not have been terminated by HQ in the previous 5 years for non-performance or non compliance with standards related to the minimum selectivity criteria applicable to the site .
After-sales candidature
The candidate repairer and / or the candidate repairer management must not have been terminated by HQ in the previous 5 years for non compliance with the minimum authorised repairer selectivity criteria .
Accounts
Accounts certification
REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE ( Contd . )
The site must have accounts certified for each financial year by an audit company or a public authority .
Separate account
If the site sells and / or repair more than 1 brand , the HQ activity must be analysed in a separate account .
Financial Capacity
Financial Criteria
The site must respect the financial criteria defined by the local financing institution selected by the ( i ) NSC .
Other Corporate & Financial
CORPORATE IDENTITY
Corporate Identity implementation
New HQ retail VI implementation
All the new HQ retail VI elements required according to the present minimum selectivity criteria must be ordered before end of 2006 .
External premises and signage
External Mandatory items
There is a New HQ Retail VI compliant pylon if planning permission allows .
If planning permission does not allow a New HQ Retail VI compliant pylon , in this case only , a New HQ Retail VI compliant projecting sign with the Brand symbol is a suitable replacement ( if planning permission allows a projecting sign ) .
There is , as a minimum , a new HQ Retail VI compliant projecting sign with the Brand symbol ( if planning permission allows ) .
If there is already a pylon , a projecting sign is not needed .
The pylon or projecting sign must be visible from the main road .
The pylon or the projecting sign must be located near the entrance of the site and remain visible from the main road .
For sales or delivery outlets , there is a New HQ Retail VI compliant Entrance statement if planning permission allows .
ABS motor fuses
A New HQ Retail VI compliant panel & wave entrance element is acceptable in case of space / architectural constraints .
If the showroom and / or the delivery building only have one entrance and this entrance is shared with another brand , there must be a new HQ Retail VI compliant entrance panel as a minimum .
In addition , the new HQ Retail VI compliant entrance panel must not be more than 20 % less prominent than that of another brand .
For after sales activity , there is , as a minimum , a new HQ Retail VI compliant Entrance panel .
If there is already a new HQ Retail VI compliant Entrance statement , a new HQ Retail VI compliant Entrance panel is not needed .
If the site is multibranded , the HQ entrance statement or entrance panel must not be more than 20 % less prominent than that of another brand .
For sales or delivery outlets , there are new HQ Retail VI compliant louvres , dealer name and HQ brand wordmark on the new vehicle showroom ( or delivery building facade if delivery activity only ) glazed facade of the site .
If the site carries two brands or more , the length of the louvres , Dealer name and HQ brand wordmark must be at least 33 % of the total showroom glazed facade ( or delivery building facade if delivery activity only ) .
For after sales , there are , as a minimum , dealer name and HQ brand wordmark on the facade of the site .
If the site is multibranded , the lengh of the Dealer name and HQ brand wordmark must be at least 33 % of the total facade of the site .
Speed sensor
External new HQ Retail VI guidelines
All external navigation and location signs must be new HQ Retail VI compliant .
If the signs are in areas shared with another brand , they must either be HQ branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
Internal premises and signage
Internal Mandatory items
There is a New HQ Retail VI compliant brand panel for each customer reception ( one for Sales and one for After Sales ) .
If the sales and after-sales reception is the same , there must be at least one New HQ Retail VI compliant brand panel .
If the site is multibranded , the HQ brand panel must not be more than 20 % less prominent than that of another make .
Each vehicle displayed in the showroom has a new HQ retail VI compliant lectern .
The site must carry at least 2 new HQ retail VI compliant poster frames located in the HQ sales customer area of the HQ showroom .
Main and FI fuse box cover
The site must carry at least 1 new HQ retail VI compliant brochure holder located in the HQ sales customer area of the HQ showroom .
The list of brochures that should be in this holder is defined by the NSC .
The site must carry at least 1 new HQ retail VI compliant Color and Trims display located in the HQ sales customer area of the HQ showroom .
Internal new HQ Retail VI guidelines
In HQ only branded sites , all furniture in the HQ customer touch areas ( desks , chairs , counters ) must be in line with the new HQ Retail VI .
If the site is multibranded , all furniture in the customer areas shared with another brand shall be either HQ branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
All Point-of-Sale material ( including internal product / brand communication ) in the dedicated showroom , the HQ customer area and on the HQ dedicated showroom glazed facade must be in line with the new HQ Retail VI .
There are no outdated HQ posters or advertising displayed in the site .
The HQ vehicle pictures exposed in the customer areas must always be approved by the NSC .
In areas shared with another brand , these elements must either be HQ branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
CBR1000RR ABS only
All interior directional and location signs must be new HQ retail VI compliant .
If these signs are in areas shared with another make , they must be HQ branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
All retail fixtures must be new HQ Retail VI compliant .
In the areas shared with another make , these elements must either be HQ branded , or both neutral and not branded to any brands .
Staff Clothes
Workshop staff clothes
If the workshop is dedicated to HQ , the workshop staff must wear clothes in line with new HQ retail VI guidelines .
In case the site is multibranded and the workshop is shared with another brand , workshop staff handling HQ car repairs must either wear HQ branded clothes or neutral and non-branded clothes .
In any case , all workshop staff repairing HQ cars in a given site must use clothes from the same range .
Service receptionist clothes
Equipment = Froehlich MPS 40 ( Left & right hand units )
If the service reception is only used for HQ customers , the service receptionists must wear clothes in line with new HQ Retail VI guidelines .
In case the site is multibranded , the service receptionists handling HQ customers must either wear HQ branded clothes or neutral and non-branded clothes .
In any case , service receptionists in a given site must use clothes from the same range .
Parts receptionist clothes
If the parts reception is only used for HQ customers , the parts receptionists must wear clothes in line with new HQ retail VI guidelines .
In case the site is muItibranded , the parts receptionists must either wear HQ branded clothes or neutral and non-branded clothes .
Communication
New HQ VI compliance of communication and documents
All the site communication issued to HQ customers should be in line with new HQ VI guidelines .
Internet dealer site
Combined ABS
If a dealer website exists , it must be compliant with B2C Internet Dealer Guidelines .
Other Corporate Identity
EXTERNAL SURROUNDINGS
Main site entrance signage
There is a minimum of one external sign indicating the customer parking from the main entrance of the site if planning permission allows .
Sales reception signage
There is a minimum of one external sign indicating the site ' s sales reception from the main entrance of the site if planning permission allows .
Delivery reception signage
There is a minimum of one external sign indicating the site ' s new vehicles delivery reception from the main entrance of the site if planning permission allows .
After sales reception signage
There is a minimum of one external sign indicating the workshop reception entrance and one external sign indicating the Parts reception entrance if planning permission allows .
If the Workshop and Parts reception entrance is the same , a minimum of one sign should indicate the after sales reception if planning permission allows .
Parking Area
Parking place size
Each customer parking place must be at least 15 m2 .
Customer parking place signage
Each customer parking place must be identified through distinctive new HQ Retail VI compliant signage .
Each customer parking place must be identified through distinctive signage .
In case the site is muItibranded , customer parking place signs must be either HQ branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
Number of Sales customer Parking
Combined ABS indicator
There is a minimum of 3 parking places dedicated to sales customers within a 300m radius of the site entrance , or through ongoing valet service during opening hours .
The number of parking places dedicated to sales customers is defined according to the annual sales planning of the site , on the basis of 1 per 100 yearly retail sales .
When not feasible on the site ' s premises , the site Manager shall ensure access to free parking ( 1 parking place per 100 yearly retail sales ) within a 300m radius of the site entrance , or through ongoing valet service during opening hours .
Delivery customer parking
There is a minimum of 3 parking places for customers coming to collect their new vehicle within a 300m radius of the site entrance , or through ongoing valet service during opening hours .
These parking places can be shared with customer parking of another activity .
The number of parking places for customers coming to collect their new vehicle is defined according to the yearly new car delivery of the site , on the basis of 1 per 100 yearly new car delivery .
When not feasible on the site ' s premises , the site Manager shall ensure access to free parking ( 1 parking place per 100 yearly new car delivery ) within a 300m radius of the site entrance , or through ongoing valet service during opening hours .
Number of After sales customer Parking
There is a minimum of 3 parking places for customers coming to collect their new vehicle .
When not feasible on the site ' s premises , the operator shall ensure access to free parking within a 300m radius of the site entrance , or through ongoing pick-up and drop zone during opening hours .
The number of dedicated Service & Repair customer parking is defined according to the number of repair orders per day .
A minimum of one additional parking place is required for parts customers .
Clear site entrance
There must not be any parking place or physical obstacle within 5 meters from the entrance of the site building .
If the entrance is directly on the road , the pavement must be clear of cars or other physical obstacles .
New car delivery
Storage of New cars to be delivered
There must be a minimum of 3 car spaces to store new vehicles to be delivered in addition to mandatory parking places required .
These storage car spaces can be shared with new car stock activity .
ABS motor fuses :
Demonstration Vehicles
Number of demonstration vehicles
The minimum number of demonstration vehicles must be 4 .
These demonstration vehicles must be kept for a minimum of 3 months .
The number of demonstration vehicles per site shall follow a 1 per maximum 100 yearly retail sales units basis according to the annual sales planning .
Presentation of demonstration vehicles
Demonstration cars should feature an external livery ( according to NSC guidelines ) .
Number of different models
The mix of demonstration vehicles shall be defined according to NSC specifications .
There must be a minimum of 4 different demonstration vehicles models .
Among the total number of demonstration vehicles , there is a minimum of one 4x4 / SUV .
Other External Surroundings
INTERNAL LAYOUT
Internal Signage
Internal directional Signage
If the HQ showroom is not directly visible , there must be a sign indicating the HQ showroom in all internal customer touch points .
If the workshop reception is not directly visible , there must be a sign indicating the workshop reception in all internal customer touch points .
If the parts reception is not directly visible , there must be a sign indicating the parts reception in all internal customer touch points .
If the customer toilets are not directly visible , there must be a sign indicating the customer toilets In all internal customer touch points .
HQ dedicated Sales area
The Combined ABS indicator should go off after you ride the motorcycle at a speed above 10 km / h ( 6 mph ) .
HQ dedicated showroom size
The HQ dedicated showroom must be at least 190 m ² by the end of 2007 .
Showroom size milestone
If the minimum size of the showroom is not respected , the site must have a map of the future building and the planning permission by 31 Dec 2006 .
Dedication of the HQ showroom
The HQ showroom is entirely dedicated to the HQ Brand .
The HQ dedicated showroom is separated from the other brand-dedicated showrooms ( if they exist ) by a potentially movable , non transparent screen or wall of at least 1 .
5m high and for at least 60 % of the common boundaries .
Showroom glazed facade length ( m )
The HQ dedicated showroom glazed facade must be at least 9 m long .
If the site carries two brands or more , the length of the showroom glazed facade dedicated to HQ must be at least 33 % of the total showroom glazed facade .
Showroom height ( m )
The HQ dedicated showroom must be 2 .
5 m high as a minimum .
Properly illuminated
The showroom dedicated to the HQ Brand must be properly illuminated ( 500 lux at 1,5 meter - min 2 meters from shop windows ) .
Display area ( m ² )
The minimum size of the HQ display area in the showroom must be 160 m ² .
The size of the display area in the HQ showroom must be 30m ² minimum per passenger car displayed and 40m ² minimum for 4x4 / SUV and LCV .
For no reason must there be more than 1 passenger vehicle displayed on 30m ² or more than one 4x4 / SUV or LCV displayed on 40m ² .
This model is equipped with Combined ABS ( Combined Anti-lock Brake System ) .
There must be a free area of 0 .
60m around each new car displayed with no walls or other cars , etc . There should not be any overlapping of free area around each vehicle which means that the free area between 2 vehicles must be at least 1 .
Number of display vehicles
There is a minimum of 5 displayed vehicles in the showroom .
Presentation of display vehicles
Each new vehicle in the showroom should be compliant with NSSW guidelines .
It should be displayed :
- With relevant vehicle name on front and rear plates ,
- With 1 New HQ retail VI compliant lectern per new car stating exposed model information and price and C02 consumption information ,
- Doors and bonnet closed ,
When the ignition switch is turned ON , the system performs a self-analysis and when the vehicle speed reaches 10 km / h ( 6 mph ) the system starts to operate and remains on while riding .
- Free of any sticker or any other documentation ,
- Clean ( check maintenance contract or internal cleaning procedure ) .
Display vehicle mix
The mix of display vehicles should respect NSC specifications , with a minimum of 5 different models .
There is a minimum of one 4x4 / SUV displayed .
Dedicated Sales customer area in the HQ showroom ( excluding display area )
The HQ dedicated sales customer area is in the showroom and comprises at least sales desks and waiting area .
The size of the dedicated sales customer area is at least 30m ² excluding display area .
There must be one sales dedicated desk with 3 chairs per designated salesman in the sales customer area of the HQ dedicated showroom .
There is a covered waiting area with a minimum of 2 seats , 1 table , one hot or / and cold drink machine .
Combined ABS is self-checking .
This waiting area can be shared with other HQ activities ' waiting areas .
Toilets
Toilets are directly accessible from the customer area , without walking through a non customer area .
Customer toilets are permanently kept clean and tidy ( maintenance contract or internal cleaning procedure to be checked ) .
New Vehicle Delivery area
Size of the handover area ( m ² )
The size of the dedicated area for handover of new vehicles to customers must be at least 30m ² .
It can be in the showroom display area only if there is no need to remove one of the mandatory minimum display unit .
Size of the customer area ( m ² )
The New vehicle delivery customer area must comprise a waiting area , a reception area and a delivery administration area .
This customer area can be shared with other activities such as Sales or After sales .
The site must have a 20m ² customer area designated to customers coming to collect their new vehicle .
Delivery area milestone
If the new car delivery area ( handover area plus customer area ) is not compliant and if permission allows , the site must have the building permission and the map of the future area by 31 Dec 2006 .
Delivery covered area
The new car delivery area ( handover area plus customer area ) must be in a permanent , covered and closed building .
Delivery Waiting area
The new car handover area must be located within 100m from a customer waiting area .
The waiting area comprises a minimum of 2 seats , 1 table , one hot or / and cold drink machine .
This area can be same as sales and / or after sales reception in case the new cars delivery is done in the same building .
Combined ABS is an electrically integrated system consisting of the Combined Brake System and Anti-lock Brake System .
If the site is multibranded , this area should either be HQ branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
Reception area
There is a reception area with a brand panel .
This area can be shared with other activities such as Sales or After sales as long as it is situated in the building where delivery is done .
Delivery administration area
There must be a delivery administration area which comprises a minimum of one desk , 3 chairs and 1 computer .
This area can be shared with other HQ activities such as Sales or After sales as long as it is situated in the building where delivery is done .
Availability of a car lift
In case of part exchange , a car lift non-adjacent to the new car delivery area should be available to diagnose the customer ' s former vehicle .
Customers Toilets
Combined ABS controls braking force by accurately monitoring the amount of force applied to the brakes and wheel speed .
These toilets can be the same as Sales or After sales customer toilets as long as they are situated in the same building .
Customer area for After sales
After sales reception area
The after sales reception area must be covered and located in a permanent and closed building .
This area can be shared with other activities such as sales .
The after sales reception area is at least 5 m ² .
The after sales reception area dedicated to HQ is new HQ retail VI compliant ( new HQ retail VI counter made up of at least 2 modules , HQ Brand wall or HQ Brand panel as a minimum ) .
This reception area can be shared with other HQ activities such as Sales .
If this reception is shared with another make , it must either be HQ branded or neutral and not branded to another make .
After-sales waiting area
It balances the front-to-rear braking distribution , and has an anti-lock function designed to help prevent wheel lock up during hard braking .
There is a waiting area with a minimum of 2 seats , 1 table with recent magazines , one Hot or / and cold drink machine .
This after sales waiting area can be shared with other HQ activities such as sales .
These toilets can be the same as Sales customer toilets as long as they are situated in the same building .
Workshop organisation
Entrance height
Height of the workshop entrance must reach 3,5 m as a minimum , if planning permission allows .
In case of building constraints , there must be an agreement validated by the NSC ( and NESAS ) .
Entrance width
The workshop entrance width must be at least 3 m , if planning permission allows .
Workshop height
Moreover , Combined ABS helps provide more riding stability when braking hard and suddenly .
Height of the workshop must reach 4,2 m for each work bay with a car lift , if planning permission allows .
Number of work bays
The minimum number of work bays must be based on the number of repair orders ( see appendix ) .
The minimum number of work bays is 2 .
Workshop facilities milestone
If the number or dimensions of workbays or Workshop entrance / ceiling entrance are not compliant and if permission allows , the site must produce building permission and the map of the future building by 31 Dec 2006 .
Number of lifts
The minimum number of lifts must be based on the number of repair orders ( see appendix ) .
The minimum number of lifts is 1 .
Geometry check car lift
Although the wheel may not lock up , if you are braking too hard in a turn , the motorcycle can still lose traction causing a loss of control .
Sites with more than 24 repair orders a day must carry one lift with geometry check ( among the total number of lifts in the workshop ) .
Work bay size ( excl .
walkways )
The minimum size of the work bays must be at least 24 m ² excluding walkways ( 4x6m ) .
Minimum space between lifts must be 80cm .
If the size of all workbays is not 24m ² , at least 50 % of the total workbays must be compliant by 31 December 2006 .
Dedicated unit repair area
There is an area dedicated to unit repair storage ( engine , gear box , & ) .
This area must not be visible from customers touch points .
Common area for collective tools
In general , you ' ll achieve the best results by braking while running in a straight line .
There is a common area dedicated to collective tools storage .
Technical documentation area
There is an area dedicated to storing technical documentation .
Clean and tidy workshop
The workshop must be kept clean and tidy through proper and regular housekeeping activities , including maintaining clean bay boundaries , benches and fittings .
All shared HQ tools shall be kept in a common area in an organized manner and under proper conditions .
The workshop must be properly illuminated ( 500 lux at 1,5 meter height ) .
Warehouse organisation
HQ parts counter
There is a parts trade counter in the site .
This trade counter must be clearly HQ identified and must comply with new HQ Retail VI .
This trade counter must either be HQ branded or neutral and not branded to any make .
In any case the trade counter must be identified to HQ by at least a location sign .
Dedicated counter for the internal workshop
There is a counter ( or access ) in the parts warehouse dedicated to the internal workshop .
Clean & illuminated storage area
The storage area must be permanently kept clean and tidy ( maintenance contract or cleaning schedule for instance must be available at any time ) .
The storage area must be properly illuminated ( 500 lux at 1,5 meter for example ) .
There must be a clearly identified methodology to tidy the parts storage ( by brand , by ref .
number , by type of products ) in line with NSC guidelines .
Zero Leak Master Part No .
Even if the front brake lever and the rear brake pedal are operated independently , the brake force is distributed appropriately to the front and the rear .
Access for parts delivery / size trucks
The access for parts delivery must be easy and comply with the size of delivery trucks .
Other Internal Layout
EQUIPMENT & TOOLING
Workshop Equipment & Tooling
HQ mandatory SSTs , equipment & tooling list
The workshop must have all the minimum SST , tools and equipments ( see Equipment and tooling list below & appendix ) .
1 tool box per technician .
Brake fluid air bleeding set .
Spring compressor for struts ( mechanical or hydraulical ) .
However , for full braking effectiveness , use both the lever and pedal simultaneously , as you would with a conventional motorcycle braking system .
A parallel spring compressor .
89600 , OTC 7520 or equivalent .
Wheel balancer ( Electronic measuring inside and outside of the wheel ) .
Torque wrench + angular wrench ( From 0- 920 kg-cm and 0-1900kg-cm including open ended device ) .
Air conditioning service and changing unit ( Suitable for R12 / R134 type gasses ) .
Engine tester 4 gas .
Exhaust gas analyser to suit petrol and diesel engines
Approved battery charger ( one each 5 bays ) .
Compressed air supply including airlines to work bays ( Quiet compressor type .
Pressure 8-10 bars for lifts 3 Bars for tools ) .
Fender ( Wing ) covers ( Plastic covers to protect the fenders ( wings ) from damage scratching ) .
Technical documentation
The workshop must possess complete technical documentation for all HQ vehicles up to and including 10 years past end of production ( EOP ) to include diagnosis and repair method manuals , Service manual , wiring diagrams , electronic body repair manuals , electronic body-builder manuals , electronic collision time repair manuals and parts catalogues ( FAST , NISCAT ) in the latest version available .
From Jan 2006 the workshop must have a permanent subscription to The official HQ Europe technical literature distribution process .
Diagnostic tool
The workshop must have a diagnostic tool capable of diagnosing all HQ vehicle breakdowns / problems for all the vehicles marketed in European Union for the past 10 years , as well as the reprogramming of on-board computers .
All sites are required to have a minimum of one diagnostic tool ( and appropriate access to the software license ) for each service site with additional requirements for sites with more than six technicians as follows : 2 for 7 to 10 technicians & 3 for more than 10 technicians .
Warehouse equipment
Electronic parts documentation
In some situations , a motorcycle with Combined ABS may require a longer stopping distance to stop on loose or uneven surfaces than an equivalent motorcycle without Combined ABS .
The warehouse must have direct access to FAST and NISCAT catalogues in the latest version available .
IT requirement
The site must be equipped with a Dealer Management compatible with the NSC requirements .
The business must have , at each site , an information system link ( Dealer Communication System ) dedicated to HQ activities and compatible with the NSC systems .
Consequently , customers are encouraged to visit their dealership for minor but important repairs .
Number of dedicated sales computer
Number of dedicated purchasing computers
Number of dedicated engineering computers
There must be one computer per designated salesman which includes DMS application , DCS access , a printer and a CD-Rom driver .
The car can be shared .
Number of dedicated delivery computer
There must be one computer per full time designated delivery person which includes DMS application , DCS access , a printer and a CD-Rom driver .
This computer can be the same as the dedicated sales computer .
Number of dedicated workshop computer
Minimum number of computers dedicated to workshop activities which include DMS application , DCS access , a printer and a CD-Rom driver = 1 for the workshop + 1 for each receptionist workplace .
Number of dedicated warehouse computer
There is a minimum of 2 computers dedicated to parts activities which include DMS application , DCS access , a printer and a CD-Rom driver ( one for customer counter + 1 for back-office ) .
HQ Parts Ordering system
SPECIAL BOLT14 x 1,5 mm83 Nm ( 8,5 kgfm , 61 lbfft )
The site must have a parts ordering system compatible with HQ system .
Internet with ADSL or ISDN connexion
The site must have access to high speed internet access ( minimum 512 kbit / s ?
Other Equipment & Tooling
STAFF & JOB DESCRIPTION
Sales manager number
There must be one designated sales manager every 5 salesmen .
( designated = fully trained to HQ products and complete a staff management and development practices training course ) .
Sales men
There must be a full time designated salesman for every 150 yearly retail sales ( designated = fully trained to HQ products ) .
Combined ABS cannot make up for road conditions , bad judgment , or improper operation of the brakes , and cannot stop rear wheel lift completely .
New car Delivery
New Car Delivery staff
There is at least one employee designated to administration and delivery of the car .
This function can be shared with other responsabilities .
After sales
After sales manager
There must be one designated after sales manager .
If this person is a full time employee of the site , this function can be shared with other responsabilities .
Master technician
There must be at least 1 full time designated Master technician ( according to the NSC definition ) .
It is still your responsibility to ride at reasonable speeds for weather , road surface , and traffic conditions , and to leave a margin of safety .
Technicians
There is at least one full time designated technician for 6 HQ repair orders per day - all operations included ( internal , external , warranty , & ) .
There is a minimum of 1 full time designated technicians .
Other after sales members of staff
The minimum number of full time designated service Manager , Foreman and receptionist is based on the number of full time designated technicians ( see appendix ) .
Parts staff
There is at least one parts manager ( or parts man ) mainly responsible for parts orders , for the parts warehouse and for the parts sales activities .
Site manager
There must be one operational person in control of the site that must have proven experience in the motor industry ( period to be specified by the NSC ) .
Other Staff & Job Description
INSTALLATIONREFERENCE HOLE ( Bracket side )
TRAINING
Sales manager training
Every sales manager hired after 01 / 01 / 06 must successfully complete a staff management and development practices training course offered either by HQ or an accredited organization .
Sales training planning
By the end of January of each year the sales manager must develop an annual training plan that states individual training , evaluation measures and personal development plans for all sales consultants .
This plan must be communicated to NSC and staff .
Product training
Every site must have a minimum of one person successfully complete every instructor-led training offered for new models launched in the market .
After sales manager or Parts manager or Service Manager
Every after-sales manager hired after 01 / 01 / 06 will successfully complete a staff management and development practices training course offered either by HQ or an accredited organization .
FRONT SUSPENSIONSUBFRAMEDAMPER
Service Manager
The Service manager will develop an annual training plan that states individual training , evaluation measures and personal development plans for staff .
By the end of January of each year the Service manager will successfully complete a staff management and development practices training course offered either by HQ or an accredited organization .
The plan will be communicated to NSC and staff .
Master Technician
Every master technician will successfully complete all instructor-led product training offered for new models launched in the market .
Technician
Every site will have a minimum of one technician successfully complete all instructor-led product training offered for new models launched in the market .
Every site will have a minimum of one service advisor / receptionist and one parts advisor / parts manager successfully complete all instructor-led product training for new models launched in the market .
Communication of staff identity to the NSC
FMC No . 123 SNNLE 21005
The anti-lock brake function of the Combined ABS may be activated by riding over a sharp drop or rise in the road level while operating the brake .
Each new hire must be identified and communicated to NSC within 1 month of hired date .
Customer-facing staff training
Every customer-facing staff regardless of entry date must complete a NSSW specific training programme .
New hires
New personnel hired after 01 / 01 / 06 will be required to successfully complete Inductee training ( Inductee training according to NSC guidelines ) .
Other Training
CUSTOMER SERVICE & CARE
Customer quality
Customer quality manager
Every site has designated a customer quality manager .
It is important to follow the tyre recommendations ( page ) .
This manager has been introduced to NSC Sales and Service field managers .
This person can have other functions in the site .
Opening hours
Competitive opening hours
The site must not have less opening hours and days when comparing with , at least , 3 competitors in its neighbourhood .
Clearly indicated on the entrance door
All opening hours must be visible from the customer entrance doors ( showroom entrance for sales hours , delivery entrance for new car delivery hours , workshop entrance for service hours and parts entrance for parts sales hours ) .
Phone number
HQ dedicated phone number
There is one telephone number dedicated to HQ customers .
The Combined ABS computer works by comparing wheel speed .
The phone number is clearly indicated on each customer entrance door .
Appearance
Damaged vehicles ( for body shop ) not visible from customer parkings & entrance
Damaged vehicles must not be visible from customer parking , site entrance or customer touch areas .
Non smoking area
Customer areas are non smoking areas
Customer areas must be non smoking area .
If it exists , the smoking area must be separated from the main customer area .
Workshop quality
Lead time before appointment
Non-recommended tyres can affect wheel speed and may confuse the Combined ABS computer .
In case of Maintenance , the workshop should always be able to arrange an appointment with a customer within 12 working days .
In case of Repair , the workshop should always be able to arrange an appointment with a customer within 6 working days .
Customer reception
In case of outsourcing , all customer touch activities should be done at the workshop ( reception and delivery ) .
Customer car protections
There must be one seat , steering wheel and gear lever protection covers on each car present in the workshop .
Vehicle wash / clean Service
The workshop must have on site or have access to a vehicle wash and valeting service .
Quality of delivered new vehicles
The site must have on site or have access to a vehicle wash and valeting service .
For fuel tank mount 15 left side rearward
Alternative transportation
Alternative transportation while repair is being done on the customer vehicle
There is at least one courtesy vehicle for HQ customers .
Customers can pay for it or it can be provided free of charge according to the NSC guidelines .
The workshop must propose other transportation means to the customer ( taxi phone , shuttle , & ) .
Body shop
Accessibility
The site must have on site or access to body shop and painting activities .
In case of outsourcing , all customer touch activities should be done at the site workshop ( reception and delivery ) .
Parts delivery
For fuel tank mount 15right side rearward
Once a day
The parts warehouse must be capable of delivering parts once a day ( directly or outsourced ) .
Other Customer Service
Marketing budget
% of sales turnover spent for marketing
Every year , the site must spend on average a minimum of x % of its sales turnover on the new vehicles marketing campaigns approved by the NSC .
Other Marketing
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT
Stocks
When Combined ABS does not function , the brakes work like a conventional braking system .
Basic parts stock
The site must permanently have access to the basic parts stock recommended by the NSC in order to meet customer expectations ( in order to limit lead time ) .
Site activity report
Account communication
The HQ accounts must be yearly reported to the NSC according to the NSC specifications .
Business Management
The HQ activity must be reported according to the NSC specifications ( content and frequency ) if applicable .
Service KPIs reporting
The HQ workshop KPIs will have to be reported according to the NSC guidelines ( See appendix D for minimum KPIs , frequency according to the NSC ) .
Sales KPIs reporting
On conventional braking systems , operating the front brake lever applies the front brake and operating the rear brake pedal applies the rear brake .
The HQ Sales KPIs will have to be reported according to the NSC guidelines ( frequency according to the NSC ) .
Other Business Management
Description
This criterion will be checked from July 2007 onwards with 3 months maximum of action plan .
Possible termination from 1st October 2007 .
Audit Note
Please enter , in the additional input field , the size of customer parking places .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of parking places dedicated to sales customers .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the number of delivery customers parking places which are on site .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of parking places for customers coming to collect their new vehicle .
For fuel tank mount 15 right side forward
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of dedicated Service & Repair customer parking .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the number of car spaces available for vehicles to be delivered .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of HQ demonstration vehicles .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the number of different demo vehicles models .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the number of 4x4 / SUV as demo vehicles .
Please enter , in the answer field , the size of the HQ dedicated showroom .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the type of elements of separation and attach a picture of the showroom .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the lenght of the dedicated showroom glazed facade .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the % of the total showroom glazed facade dedicated to HQ .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the height of the showroom ceiling .
For fuel tank mount 15 left side forward
Please enter , in the additional input field , the level of illumination .
Please enter , in the answer field , the size of the HQ display area .
Please enter the number of displayed vehicles in the showroom .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of displayed vehicles in the showroom .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of different models displayed .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of 4x4 / SUV displayed .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of sales dedicated desks .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of work bays .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of lifts .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of dedicated sales computers .
JAK No .
You may feel a change in the way the brake lever / pedal reacts when it is operated under the following conditions :
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of sales managers .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of sales men .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of Master technicians .
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of designated technicians .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the number of full time designated service Manager , Foreman and receptionist .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the number of parts manager / parts man .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the number of Sales Managers .
Please enter , in the additional input field , the number of courtesy vehicles for HQ customers .
APPLICATION RULES - DELIVERY OUTLETS
HQ New European Retail Design – Standards Manual and NE RVI Minimum
Immediately after turning the ignition switch ON
Contract Concept and Engineering Drawings and Specifications set out in Sign
Contractors and NSC Agreement .
The following are a list of application rules that are mandated and under no
circumstances are to be compromised .
These are to be read in conjunction with the
Core Application Guidelines in the following section .
All existing HQ signs shall be removed and there shall never be sites with a
mixture of old and new HQ signs .
The minimum sign requirement includes a HQ Wordmark , Dealer Name letters ,
pole mounted pylon and wall signs .
After braking to a stop
Only the HQ Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters can be placed on the
Louvres .
Neither two HQ Wordmarks nor two Dealer Name Signs should appear at the
same corner of a facility .
All signs should be applied in accordance with any local or national regulations and
codes .
The HQ Brand Symbol should only appear on a Main Dealership new car
showroom and Full Secondary Dealership .
Louvres may only be used on a Main Dealer new car showroom or a Full Secondary
Dealership .
advances the left hand sealant assembly .
The HQ Main Dealer additional outlet has the same range of services as the Main
Dealer but is operated by a Main Dealer and has no contractual links with the NSC .
The HQ Secondary dealership has all services as the Main Dealer but has a
contractual relationship with a main HQ Dealer .
HQ SERVICE OR RAPID SERVICE ONLY DEALER
The HQ Service Only Dealer does only carry out service and maintenance and has
no sales facilities .
The HQ Service or Rapid Service only Dealer has a contractual
relationship with a Main Dealer .
The HQ Authorised Repair Shop has the same services as the HQ Service
index raised , assembly carriage advanced .
Dealer but has a direct contract with the NSC .
Retail Signs -Application Rules -Delivery Outlets -Revision 4
CORE APPLICATION GUIDELINES FOR EXTERNAL SIGNAGE
FOR DELIVERY OUTLETS ,
0 DELIVERY OUTLET PYLON
1 Delivery Outlet Pylons should be adjacent / visible from the main road / highway .
2 Delivery Outlet Pylons are available in 4 different sizes ( 2 .
monument size ,
and 6 .
( R3 ) ADVANCE RH SEALANT ASSEMBLY :
3 The Delivery Outlet Pylon will replace the Network 2000 pylon and will fit on the
Network 2000 foundation where appropriate .
For new build sites or when the
pylon needs to be relocated , the priority in Delivery Outlet Pylons is : first 4 .
second 3 .
60m or 6 .
00m .
Monument size can be used whenever a Delivery Outlet
Pylon is not an option due to site constraints or permit approval .
advances the right hand sealant assembly .
4 Delivery Outlet Pylons will not have any additional text ( e .
g . dealer name ) and will
not be illuminated by indirect lighting .
5 Delivery Outlet Pylons to be positioned perpendicular to the main road , in close
proximity to the main entrance to the Delivery Outlet site .
6 If a site is able to accept two or more Pylons then the largest should be located at
the main site entrance .
7 Preferably the facility main door entrance should be visible from the Delivery Outlet
Pylon .
0 ENTRANCE STATEMENT PANEL ( E .
( R5 ) APPLY LH SEALANT :
P .
1 An Entrance Statement Panel ( ESP ) will be used for Delivery Outlets .
2 E .
P ’ s are available in different heights and have a standard length of 3000
mm ( if required the width can be adjusted within the margins set in the detail
drawings ) .
By varying the width and height of the element the E .
P can be
positioned in front of glass fa ç ade , sizes are preferably adjusted to the nearest
applies the left hand sealant .
transom and mullion .
4 The E .
P should preferably be visible from customer parking .
P should only be applied to main dealership entrance .
5 The chosen E .
P should either be the same height or lower than the roof line –
never higher .
6 The height – width ratio of the E .
P has to remain intact as much as possible .
7 The silver panels should have a height : width ratio of 1 : 2 .
Indicator block background is grey when incomplete and yellow when complete .
Height of the E .
P has
no direct relation to the position or type of Louvres used , but all are to be in
proportion with the size and overall appearance of the building .
8 The rear of the E .
P is open and should be attached to the facade .
If this is a
glass fa ç ade the rear must be covered by the application of Sunrise Silver self
adhesive vinyl to the inside surface of the glazing .
On new build the E .
It is not advisable to join over 2 metres of pipe length to the T junction .
( R7 ) APPLY RH SEALANT :
attached to a solid wall .
9 The size of the Brand Symbol per E .
P is fixed , no variants are allowed .
1 Louvres are only to be positioned on the Delivery Outlet fa ç ade to
indicate where new cars are delivered .
2 Louvres should be applied as a minimum to the full width of the showroom ’ s
primary elevation .
Louvres may be installed on secondary elevations in addition
to the primary elevation provided that the secondary elevation is part of the
Delivery Outlet . .
applies the right hand sealant .
3 Louvres shall not appear / project above the roofline .
4 The HQ Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters are the only permissible
signs that shall appear on the Louvres .
5 Louvres are to run horizontally and parallel in front of the glass fa ç ade .
Preferably
Louvres should run on the same horizontal level irrespective of varying roof lines
/ building heights .
6 Height of Louvres depends on height and general appearance of building .
7 First preference position is in front of glass , but the underside of the bottom
Louvre should be minimum 2 .
( R9 ) RETURN LH SEALANT ASSEMBLY :
70 m above ground level .
8 Second preferred position is bottom Louvre positioned in front of the glass and
top Louvres above the glass in front of the fascia .
Top Louvre should be at the
same height as the top of Network 2000 fascia .
9 If 4 .
5 and 4 .
6 are not possible , Louvres can be positioned above the glass ( in
case of existing Network 2000 : to replace the blue fascia band ) .
10 Previous Network 2000 support construction is to be reused as much as
returns the left hand sealant assembly .
possible .
11 In the case where Network 2000 fascia is removed silver aluminum back
panels may be required behind the Louvres .
12 In the situation of a glass fa ç ade application brackets are to be positioned on
the window mullions .
13 Louvres have a maximum span of 3 .
00 m between brackets but can be less if
agreed .
14 Rows of Louvres relate to size of HQ Wordmark and Dealer Name Letters ,
refer to table .
( R1 ) RETURN RH SEALANT ASSEMBLY :
15 At the corners of a facility Louvres will be ‘ open ’ .
Mitered angles to continue
around corners of facetted / curved buildings are not required .
16 Only in exceptional circumstances will Half Louvres be allowed as the back
panel for Dealer Name and Wordmark , i .
e . above showrooms at urban sites
where the depth of full Louvres exceeds local regulations .
0 DEALER NAME or DELIVERY OUTLET LETTERS AND
1 Dealer Name or Delivery Outlet letters and HQ Wordmark in general to be
positioned on the Louvres at the primary elevation , whereby the Dealer Name or
returns the right hand sealant assembly .
Delivery Outlet is positioned on the left and the HQ Wordmark on the right
[ Note : If the Panel Entrance Statement is located on the extreme right hand side
of the primary elevation , then the Dealer Name or Delivery Outlet letters may be
reversed in order to avoid the conflict with the HQ Brand Symbol on the
Entrance Statement ] .
In case of a significant surface of closed ( non glazed )
facade above the
2 Louvres , Dealer Name or Delivery Outlet and Wordmark can be positioned above
the Louvres but only on silver cladding background .
3 The words HQ , Dealer ( or any translation ) , additions like Ltd , SAS , BV .
( R3 ) CHECK LH SEALANT :
, etc shall be excluded from the Dealer Name letters .
Long Dealer
Names should be avoided .
4 HQ Wordmark , Dealer Name or Delivery Outlet letters are available in different
sizes .
The number of Louvres used determines position and size of letters as per
the table below .
displays a message to indicate that the sealant is OK or NOK .
5 The number of HQ Wordmarks will always be equal to or more than the
number of Dealer Names / Delivery outlet .
6 The distance between the HQ Wordmark and the Dealer Name / Delivery
outlet letters should not exceed 30 m and as a minimum should not be less than
four times the height of the HQ Wordmark letters .
7 In the case when both HQ Wordmark and the Dealer Name / Delivery Outlet
letters will not fit in the space available on the Louvres , the Dealer Name /
Delivery Outlet letters shall take preference and the HQ Wordmark shall be
re-located onto another part of the elevation independent of the Louvres .
Alternatively , Louvres may be extended to a secondary elevation and used to
( R5 ) CHECK RH SEALANT :
present the HQ Wordmark .
8 Dealer Name or Delivery Outlet letters shall not be stacked .
9 Neither two HQ Wordmarks nor two Dealer Name / Delivery Outlet signs
should appear at the same corner of a facility .
10 Bottom edges of HQ Wordmark and Dealer name / Delivery Oyutlet should
align .
11 Type of Louvres , size ofWordmark and Dealer Name / Delivery Outlet letters and
their position on the Louvres are presented in the table below :
APPLICATION RULES - STAND ALONE , SERVICE WORKSHOPS
Retail Signs -Application Rules -Stand Alone , Service Workshops -Revision 4
advances the left hand carriage assembly .
Whenever you see the symbols shown below , heed their instructions ! Always follow safe operating and maintenance practices .
This warning symbol identifies special instructions or procedures which , if not correctly followed , could result in personal injury , or loss of life .
This caution symbol identifies special instructions or procedures which , if not strictly observed , could result in damage to or destruction of equipment .
This note symbol indicates points of particular interest for more efficient and convenient operation .
THIS PRODUCT HAS BEEN MANUFACTURED FOR USE IN A REASONABLE AND PRUDENT MANNER BY A QUALIFIED OPERATOR AND AS A VEHICLE ONLY .
FOREWORD
Congratulations on your purchase of a new motorcycle .
Your new motorcycle is the product of advanced engineering , exhaustive testing , and continuous striving for superior reliability , safety and performance .
Please read this Owner ' s Manual carefully before riding so that you will be thoroughly familiar with the proper operation of your motorcycle ' s controls , its features , capabilities , and limitations .
This manual offers many safe riding tips , but its purpose is not to provide instruction in all the techniques and skills required to ride a motorbike safely .
Zero Leak Master Part No . ( Number issued part not available )
( R1 ) UNLOCK RH REACTION UNIT :
We strongly recommend that all operators of this vehicle enroll in a motorcycle rider training program to attain awareness of the mental and physical requirements necessary for safe motorcycle operation .
To ensure a long , trouble-free life for your motorcycle , give it the proper care and maintenance described in this manual .
For those who would like more detailed information on their Motorcycle , a Service Manual is available for purchase from any authorized motorcycle dealer .
The Service Manual contains detailed disassembly and maintenance information .
Those who plan to do their own work should , of course , be competent mechanics and possess the special tools described in the Service Manual .
Keep this Owner ' s Manual aboard your motorcycle at all times so that you can refer to it whenever you need information .
This manual should be considered a permanent part of the motorcycle and should remain with the motorcycle when it is sold and handed to the customer .
All rights reserved .
This publication includes the latest information available at the time of printing , including pricing .
unlocks right hand reaction unit .
However , there may be minor differences between the actual product and illustrations and text in this manual .
All products are subject to change without prior notice or obligation .
Maximum Hosepower
July 2006 .
SPECIFICATIONS
PERFORMANCE
Maximum Horsepower
128.4 kW ( 175 PS ) @ 11,700 r / min ( rpm )
Indicator block background is grey when locked and yellow when unlocked .
Maximum Torque
115 N · m ( 11.7 kgf · m ) @ 9,500 r / min ( rpm )
Minimum Turning Radius
Overall Length
Overall Width
Overall Height
Road Clearance
Dry Weight
reaction unit returned .
ENGINE
DOHC , 4-valve , single-cylinder , 4-stroke , liquid-cooled
62.1 mm
Type
Bore stroke
DOHC , 4-valve , 2-cylinder , 4-stroke , liquid-cooled
649 cm3 ( 39.6 cu in . )
Bore Stroke
Compression Ratio
Starting System
( R3 ) UNLOCK LH REACTION UNIT :
Electric starter
Cylinder Numbering Method
Left to right , 1-2
Firing Order
Carburetion System
Fi ( Fuel Injection )
Ignition System
Battery and coil ( transistorized ignition )
Ignition Timing
BTDC @ 1,300 r / min ( rpm )
unlocks left hand reaction unit .
( Electronically advanced )
° BTDC @ 1,100 r / min ( rpm )
Spark Plugs
Forced lubrication ( wet sump )
Lubrication System
Forced lubrication ( semi-dry sump )
Engine Oil
Type :
In some cases , improper installation or use of accessories , or motorcycle modification , will void the motorcycle warranty can negatively affect performance , and can even be illegal .
( R5 ) ADVANCE RH REACTION UNIT :
Oil Pressure Warning Light
API SE , SF or SG
API SH , SJ or SL with JASO MA
Capacity :
3.7 L
2.4 L
Coolant Capacity
1.2 L
advances the right hand reaction unit .
TRANSMISSION
Transmission Type
3-speed , return shift
Clutch Type
Wet , multi disc
Driving System
Chain drive
Primary Reduction Ratio
Final Reduction Ratio
Overall Drive Ratio
reaction unit unlocked , index raised and assembly carriage returned .
4.821 ( Top gear )
Gear Ratio
1st
FRAME
Tubular , semi-double cradle
Castor
Helmet Holding Hook
Tire size , type :
Tire Size :
Front
( R6 ) RETURN RH REACTION UNIT :
120 / 70ZR17 M / C ( 58 W ) Tubeless
160 / 60ZR17 M / C ( 69 W ) Tubeless
Rim Size :
Fuel Tank Capacity
15.5 L
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
12 V 55 W / 55 W ( Hi / Lo )
Tail / Brake Light
Fill
returns the right hand reaction unit .
Specifications subject to change without notice , and may not apply to every country .
LOCATION OF PARTS
Clutch Lever
Left Handlebar Switches
Meter Instruments
Brake Fluid Reservoir ( Front )
( R7 ) ADVANCE LH REACTION UNIT :
Right Handlebar Switches
Front Brake Lever
Throttle Grip
Ignition Switch / Steering Lock
Wheel
Turn Signal Light
Headlight / Position
Air Cleaner
Main Fuse
Seat
advances the left hand reaction unit .
Air Cleaner Element
Tool Kit / Storage Compartments
Helmet Holding Cable
Seat Lock
Front Fork
Brake Disc
Brake Caliper
Shift Pedal
Side Stand
License Plate Light
( R8 ) RETURN LH REACTION UNIT :
Brake Fluid Reservoir ( Rear )
Fuel Tank
Fuel Tank Cap
LOADING AND ACCESSORIES INFORMATION
Muffler
Rear Brake Light Switch
Rear Brake Pedal
Oil Level Gauge
Rear Shock Absorber
Rebound Damping Force Adjuster
returns the left hand reaction unit .
Idle Adjusting Screw
Coolant Reserve Tank
LOADING INFORMATION
Incorrect loading , improper installation or use of accessories , or modification of your motorcycle may result in an unsafe riding condition .
In some cases , improper installation or use of accessories , or motorcycle modification , will void the motorcycle warranty .
In selecting and using accessories , and in loading the motorcycle , you are personally responsible for your own safety and the safety of other persons involved .
Our parts and accessories have been specially designed for use on our motorcycles .
We strongly recommend that all parts and accessories you add to your motorcycle be genuine components .
Because a motorcycle is sensitive to changes in weight and aerodynamic forces , you must take extreme care in carrying cargo , passengers and / or in the fitting of additional accessories .
The following general guidelines have been prepared to assist you in making your determinations .
( R9 ) LOCK RH REACTION UNIT :
Any passenger should be thoroughly familiar with motorcycle operation .
The passenger can affect control of the motorcycle by improper positioning during cornering and sudden movements .
It is important that the passenger sit still while the motorcycle is in motion and not interfere with the operation of the motorcycle .
Do not carry animals on your motorcycle .
You should instruct any passenger before riding to keep his feet on the passenger footpegs and hold on to the operator , seat strap or grab rail .
Do not carry a passenger unless he or she is tall enough to reach the footpegs and footpegs are provided .
All baggage should be carried as low as possible to reduce the effect on the motorcycle center of gravity .
Baggage weight should also be distributed equally on both sides of the motorcycle .
Avoid carrying baggage that extends beyond the rear of the motorcycle .
Baggage should be securely attached .
locks right hand reaction unit .
ensure that the baggage will not move around while you are riding .
Recheck baggage security as often as possible ( not while the motorcycle is in motion ) and adjust as necessary .
Do not carry heavy or bulky items on a luggage rack .
They are designed for light items , and overloading can affect handling due to changes in weight distribution and aerodynamic forces .
Do not install accessories or carry baggage that impairs the performance of the motorcycle .
ensure that you have not adversely affected any lighting components , road clearance , banking capability ( i . e . , lean angle ) , control operation , wheel travel , front fork movement , or any other aspect of the motorcycle ' s operation .
Weight attached to the handlebar or front fork will increase the mass of the steering assembly and can result in an unsafe riding condition .
Fairings , windshields , backrests , and other large items have the capability of adversely affecting stability and handling of the motorcycle , not only because of their weight , but also due to the aerodynamic forces acting on these surfaces while the motorcycle is in operation .
Poorly designed or installed items can result in an unsafe riding condition .
This motorcycle was not intended to be equipped with a sidecar or to be used to tow any trailer or other vehicle .
Indicator block background is grey when unlocked and green when locked .
Furthermore , any adverse effects on motorcycle components caused by the use of such accessories will not be remedied under warranty .
Maximum Load
Weight of rider , passenger , baggage , and accessories must not exceed 180 kg .
GENERAL INFORMATION
A . Coolant Temperature Warning Light
RESET Button
C . Oil Pressure Warning Light
D . Neutral Indicator Light
E . High Beam Indicator Light
F . MODE Button
reaction unit advanced .
G . Left Turn Signal Indicator Light
H . Tachometer
I . Red Zone
J . Right Turn Signal Indicator Light
K . LCD ( Clock , Trip Meter A / B , Odometer , Fuel Level Guage )
L . FI Indicator Light
M . ABS Indicator Light ( model with ABS )
Tachometer :
The tachometer shows the engine speed in revolutions per minute ( r / min , rpm ) .
On the right side of the tachometer face is a portion called the “ red zone ” .
( R3 ) OPEN LH RELEASE CYLINDER :
Engine r / min ( rpm ) in the red zone is above maximum recommended engine speed and is also above the range for good performance .
When ignition key is turned to “ ON ” , the tachometer needle momentarily points to the last reading to check its operation .
If the tachometer needle does not operate correctly , have it inspected by an authorized dealer .
Engine r / min ( rpm ) should not be allowed to enter the red zone ; operation in the red zone will overstress the engine and may cause serious engine damage .
LCD ( Speedometer , Clock , Odometer , Trip Meters , Fuel Level Guage ) :
The LCD ( Liquid Crystal Display ) located in the tachometer face is used to display the speedometer , Clock , odometer , Trip Meters A / B , and Fuel Level Guage .
Pushing the MODE button shifts the display through the following four modes : CLOCK , ODO , and TRIP A / When the ignition key is turned to “ ON ” , all the LCD segments are displayed for three seconds , then the clock or meters operate normally depending on the mode selected .
Helmet Holding Hooks
Helmets can be secured to the motorcycle using the helmet holding hooks located under the seat .
A . Helmet Holding Hook
3 sec .
( R1 ) LOCK LH REACTION UNIT :
Do not ride the motorcycle with helmets attached to the hooks .
A . Clock
Odometer
C . Trip Meter A
D . Trip Meter B
E . Push MODE Button
For safe operation do not press the MODE button while riding .
Digital Meter
A . Fuel Level Guage
Speedometer
locks left hand reaction unit .
C . Clock , Trip Meter A / B , Odometer
Do not shift the digital meter display while riding for safe operation .
Mile / Km Display -
Mile / Km Display can alternate between English and metric modes ( mile and km ) in the digital meter .
ensure that km or mile according to local regulations is correctly displayed before riding .
Do not operate the vehicle with the digital meter displaying in the wrong unit ( km or mile ) .
Shift the km / mile display in the digital meter as follows .
Display the odometer in the digital meter .
The km / mile display shifts by pushing the RESET button while the MODE button pushed in .
A . Km / Mile Display
opens the left hand release cylinder .
The km / mile display shifts as follows .
A . Mile Display
Km Display
C . Push RESET Button with MODE Button in
The data is maintained even if the battery is disconnected .
Speedometer -
The speedometer shows the speed of the vehicle in digital value .
Clock -
To adjust the hours and minutes :
Turn the ignition key to “ ON ” .
Indicator block background is grey when closed and yellow when open .
Push the “ MODE ” button to display the clock .
Push the “ RESET ” button for more than two seconds .
Both the hour and minute displays start flashing .
Push the “ RESET ” button .
The hour display only flashes .
Push the “ MODE ” button to advance the hours .
The hour display stops flashing and the minute display starts flashing .
Push the “ MODE ” button to advance the minutes .
Both the hour and minute displays start flashing again .
Push the “ MODE ” button .
index raised , press returned .
The displays stop flashing and the clock starts working .
Pushing the “ MODE ” button momentarily advances the hour or minute step by step .
Pushing and holding the button advance the hour or minute continuously .
The clock works normally from the back-up power while the ignition switch is turned off .
When the battery is disconnected , the clock resets to 1 : 00 and starts working again when the battery is connected .
Odometer -
The odometer shows the total distance in kilometers or miles that the vehicle has been ridden .
The odometer shows the total distance the vehicle has been ridden .
This meter cannot be reset .
When the figures come to 999999 , they are stopped and locked .
( R4 ) CLOSE LH RELEASE CYLINDER :
Trip Meter -
The trip meters show the distance in kilometers traveled since they were last reset to zero .
TRIP A : 0.0 - 999.9
TRIP B : 0.0 - 9999.9
To reset the trip meter :
Push the “ MODE ” button to display the trip meter A or B .
Push the “ RESET ” button and hold it in .
After two seconds , the figure display turns to 0.0 , and then starts counting when the vehicle is operated .
The meter counts until it is next reset .
The data is maintained by the back-up power if the ignition key is turned off .
closes the left hand release cylinder .
When the trip meter is reset while the vehicle is stopped , it starts counting as soon as the vehicle starts moving .
When the trip meter reaches 999.9 ( TRIP A ) or 9999.9 ( TRIP B ) while running , the meters reset to 0.0 and continues counting .
When the battery is disconnected , the meter display resets to 0.0 .
Fuel Gauge -
The fuel in the fuel tank is shown by the number of segments displayed .
When the fuel tank is full , all the segments are displayed .
As the fuel level in the tank goes down , the segments disappear one by one from F ( full ) to E ( empty ) .
When only the most bottom segment is displayed , 5.0 L of fuel remain .
Furthermore , when the lowest segment and FUEL ” flash in the digital meter , only 4.0 L of fuel remain .
Refuel at the earliest opportunity if the most bottom segment of the fuel gauge flashes .
Indicator block background is grey when open and green when closed .
A . Flash
When pushing the MODE button while “ FUEL ” is displayed , the display can be shifted to odometer , trip meter mode .
Refer to the following each symbol instructions ( ) , ( ) or ( FI ) for more detailed information .
: The warning light in the meter instrument and the oil pressure warning symbol ( ) in the digital meter flash whenever the oil pressure is dangerously low or the ignition switch is in the ON position with the engine not running , and go off when the engine oil pressure is high enough .
: The oil pressure warning light goes on whenever the oil pressure is dangerously low or the ignition key is in the ON position with the engine not running , and goes off when the engine oil pressure is high enough .
Refer to the Maintenance and Adjustment chapter for more detailed engine oil information .
If the warning light and warning symbol flash , have the FI system checked by an authorized dealer .
: The warning light in the meter instrument and the immobilizer warning symbol ( ) in the digital meter flash on whenever the ignition key is turned to “ ON ” or trouble occurs in the immobilizer system .
After turning the ignition key to “ ON ” , the immobilizer warning symbol ( ) goes off soon after it has been ensured that its circuit functions properly .
If the warning light and warning symbol flash on , have the immobilizer system checked by an authorized dealer .
press at mid position .
( For models equipped with an immobilizer system )
FI : The fuel injection ( FI ) indicator light in the tachometer goes on when the ignition key is turned to “ ON ” and goes off soon after ensuring that its circuit functions properly .
The indicator light also goes on whenever the troubles occur in digital fuel injection system ( DFI ) .
If the indicator light comes on , have the DFI system checked by an authorized dealer , When the indicator light flashes , first turn the ignition key to “ OFF ” and then back to “ ON ” .
Central hydraulic - close off the area of the system requiring repairs and maintenance .
For work concerning a specific area at only one station :
Alterations may only be exFTted in accordance with the mentioned “ Design Specifications ” and must be documented accordingly .
Alterations affecting safety require the approval of the manufacturer .
LOWER PUSHER
Bypass / Normal selector switch
( R5 ) OPEN RH RELEASE CYLINDER :
This switch allows blocks to be brought in from outside plants and cycled through the machine .
The block is scanned to check that the barcode label is attached and legible .
If it is not , the block is worked as normal and labelled with a label containing the original plant of origin .
Selection cannot be changed unless the machine has been run-out as per part type selection .
Nut-runner Spindle Parameters
Equipment
Manufacturer + Equipment
Information .
Serial No .
JAK Nut runner controller
Balance
opens the right hand release cylinder .
JAK Nut runner spindle
Schazt Transducer
Program 1 . Tightening .
ADVANCE LH SEALANT ASSEMBLY :
Parameters .
: The coolant temperature warning light goes on whenever the coolant temperature rises to 115 ° C when the motorcycle is in operation .
This warns the operator that the coolant temperature is too high .
If the warning light goes on , stop the engine and check the coolant level in the reserve tank after the engine cools down .
Do not let the engine continue running when the warning light flashes .
Prolonged engine operation will result in severe damage from overheating .
( R6 ) CLOSE RH RELEASE CYLINDER :
( For models equipped with ABS )
: The ABS ( Anti-lock Brake System ) indicator light in the tachometer comes on when the ignition switch is turned on and goes off shortly after the motorcycle starts moving .
( Except for models equipped with an immobilizer system )
Immobilizer System ( For models equipped with an Immobilizer system )
This vehicle has one master key with a white head and two user-keys with grey heads .
HQ strongly recommends you do not use the master key for daily driving .
Store the master key and the key tag in a safe place .
Key
This motorcycle has a combination key , which is used for the ignition switch / steering lock , seat lock , and fuel tank cap .
This is a four-position , key-operated switch .
closes the right hand release cylinder .
The key can be removed from the switch when it is in the OFF , LOCK , or P ( Park ) position .
A . Ignition Switch / Steering Lock
ON position
C . OFF position
D . LOCK position
E . P ( Park ) position
Engine off .
All electrical circuits off .
Engine on .
All electrical equipment can be used .
( R7 ) RETURN LH PRESS :
Headlight goes on when the starter button is released after starting the engine .
Steering locked .
P ( Park )
Tail and license plate lights on .
The tail and license plate lights are on whenever the ignition key is in the ON position .
License plate , tail , and city lights on and turn signals can be used .
All other electrical circuits cut off .
The city , tail and license plate lights are on whenever the ignition key is in the ON position .
One headlight goes on when the starter button is released after starting the engine .
returns the left hand press .
To avoid battery discharge , always start the engine immediately after turning the ignition key to “ ON ” .
If you leave the P ( Park ) position on for a long time ( one hour ) , the battery may become totally discharged .
Engine Stop Switch :
In addition to the ignition switch , the engine stop switch must be in the position for the motorcycle to operate .
Refer to the Starting the Engine section of the " How to Ride the Motorcycle " chapter for starting instructions .
When the headlight is on high beam , both headlights are lit .
When the turn signal switch is turned to the left ( ) or right ( ) , the corresponding turn signals flash on and off .
D . Hazard Switch
The engine stop switch is for emergency use .
If some emergency requires stopping the engine , move the engine stop switch to the position .
Indicator block background is grey when at mid position and yellow when returned .
The adjuster has 6 positions so that the released lever position can be adjusted to suit the operator ' s hands .
Although the engine stop switch stops the engine , it does not turn off all the electrical circuits .
Ordinarily , the ignition switch should be used to stop the engine .
Starter Button :
The starter button operates the electric starter when the transmission is in neutral .
Refer to the Starting the Engine section of the “ How to Ride the Motorcycle ” chapter for starting instructions .
A . Engine Stop Switch
Starter Button
Dimmer Switch :
High or low beam can be selected with the dimmer switch .
index raised and assembly carriage returned .
When the headlight is on high beam ( ) , the high beam indicator light is lit .
High beam . . . . . . . ( )
E . Passing Button
Be careful not to use the hazard lights for more than 30 minutes , otherwise the battery may become totally discharged .
Low beam . . . . . . . ( )
Brake Lever Adjuster
There is an adjuster on the brake lever .
When the headlight is on high beam , both head lights are lit .
When the headlight is on low beam , only one headlight is lit .
A . Dimmer Switch
( R8 ) ADVANCE LH PRESS TO DEPTH :
Turn Signal Switch
C . Horn Button
D . Passing Button
E . Hazard
Turn Signal Switch :
When the turn signal switch is turned to the left ( ) or right ( ) , the corresponding turn signal flashes on and off .
To stop flashing , push the switch in .
Horn Button :
When the horn button is pushed , the horn sounds .
Passing Button :
advances the left hand press to depth .
When the passing button is pushed , the headlight high beam ( passing beam ) comes on to signal the driver of the vehicle ahead that you are about to pass him .
The passing light shuts off as soon as the button is released .
Hazard Switch :
If an emergency requires you to park on the highway shoulder , turn on the hazard lights to warn other drivers of your location .
Push in the hazard switch with the ignition switch in the ON or P ( Park ) position .
All the turn signals and turn signal indicator lights will flash on and off .
If you leave the switch on for a long time , the battery may become totally discharged .
So be careful not to use the hazard lights for more than 30 minutes .
Brake / Clutch Lever Adjusters
There is an adjuster on both the brake and clutch levers .
index raised , assembly carriage returned and reaction unit advanced .
Each adjuster has 5 positions so that the released lever position can be adjusted to suit the operator ' s hands .
Push the lever forward and turn the adjuster to align the number with the arrow mark on the lever holder .
The distance from the grip to the released lever is minimum at Number 6 and maximum at Number 1 .
A . Adjuster
Mark
To open the fuel tank cap , pull up the key hole cover .
Insert the ignition key into the fuel tank cap and turn the key to the right .
To close the cap , push it down into place with the key inserted .
The key can be removed by turning it to the left to the original position .
The fuel tank cap cannot be closed without the key inserted , and the key cannot be removed unless the cap is locked properly .
Test
( R9 ) RETURN RH PRESS :
Do not push on the key to close the cap , or the cap cannot be locked .
A . Key Hole Cover
Ignition Key
C . Fuel Tank Cap
Avoid filling the tank in the rain or where heavy dust is blowing so that the fuel does not get contaminated .
A . Tank Cap
C . Top Level
D . Filler Neck
Gasoline is extremely flammable and can be explosive under certain conditions .
If “ knocking " or “ pinging " occurs , try a different brand of gasoline or higher octane grade .
returns the right hand press .
Turn the ignition key to “ OFF ” .
Do not smoke .
ensure the area is well ventilated and free from any source of flame or sparks ; this includes any appliance with a pilot light .
Never fill the tank so the fuel level rises into the filler neck .
If the tank is overfilled , heat may cause the fuel to expand and overflow through the vents in the tank cap .
After refueling , ensure the fuel tank cap is closed securely .
Similarly , by pulling the needle further , the mixture may be somewhat poor .
If gasoline is spilled on the fuel tank , wipe it off immediately .
Fuel Requirement :
Do not use leaded gasoline , as this will destroy the catalytic converter .
( R10 ) ADVANCE RH PRESS TO DEPTH :
( For further information , refer to the “ Catalytic Converter ” section in the “ How to Ride the Motorcycle ” chapter . )
Octane Rating
The octane rating of a gasoline is a measure of its resistance to detonation or “ knocking . ”
The term commonly used to describe a gasoline ' s octane rating is the Research Octane Number ( RON ) .
Always use a gasoline with an octane rating equal to , or higher than , RON 95 .
If “ knocking ” or “ pinging ” occurs , use a different brand of gasoline or higher octane rating .
Stand
The motorcycle is equipped with a side stand .
A . Side Stand
When using the side stand , turn the handlebar to the left .
Advances the right hand press to depth .
Whenever the side stand is used , make it a practice to kick the stand fully up before sitting on the motorcycle .
The motorcycle is equipped with a side stand switch .
This switch is designed so that the engine does not start if the transmission is in gear and the side stand is down .
Seat Removal
Insert the ignition key into the seat lock , located on the rear cowling .
Turn the key clockwise while pulling on the rear end of the seat .
If there is difficulty removing the seat , be sure to insert the key all the way and to push down strongly on the rear end of the seat while turning the key clockwise .
A . Seat
C . Ignition Key
D . Insert
( R1 ) VACUUM ON LHS :
Seat Installation
Install seats in the reverse order of removal .
Place the tabs into the matching slot and receptacles .
Slot
C . Tab
D . Receptacle
E . Hook
F . Lock
Insert the hook at the rear of the seat into the lock on the frame .
Push down the rear part of the seat until the lock clicks .
turns on the left hand vacuum pump .
Pull up the rear end of the seat to ensure it is securely locked .
If there is difficulty removing the ignition key from the seat lock , turn it lightly counterclockwise while pulling it out .
Helmets can be secured to the motorcycle using the helmet holding cables located under the seat .
A . Helmet Holding Cable
Do not ride the motorcycle with a helmet attached to the cable .
The helmet could cause an accident by distracting the operator or interfering with normal vehicle operation .
Tool Kit / U-Shaped lock Compartment
The tool kit is stored under the seat .
The kit contains tools that can be helpful in making roadside repairs , adjustments , and some maintenance procedures explained in this manual .
Also under the seat , there is a lock strap which holds a U-Shaped lock .
Indicator block background is grey when off and yellow when on .
Install the U-shaped part and lock separately and secure them each with its strap .
A . Tool Kit
Strap
C . U-Shaped Lock
Rear View Mirror
Rear View Mirror Adjustment
Adjust the rear view mirror by slightly moving only the mirror portion of the assembly .
If the rear visibility can not be assured by moving the mirror , turn the stay by hand .
A . Stay
If the ignition key is turned to “ OFF ” position , wait a short while ( approx . 5 seconds ) before turning the key to “ ON ” position again .
press returned .
Do not force to tighten and / or loosen the upper hexagonal area with a pair of spanners or wrench .
Forcible loosening and / or tightening may damage the upper hexagonal area and / or the turning mechanism of the stay
A . Lower Hexagonal Area for Tightening
Upper Hexagonal Area
C . Rear View Mirror
Windshield
The windshield can be adjusted within 3 positions in height to suit the rider ' s preference .
Loosen the upper and lower bolts on the windshield and move it up or down .
After adjusting , tighten the bolts securely .
A . Windshield
( R3 ) VACUUM ON RHS :
Bolts
Remove the seat holder bracket .
Tightening Torque
Windshield Bolt
- 0.5 N · m ( 0.035 - 0.05 kgf · m )
Move each wellnut with the bolts when adjusting the windshield .
BREAK-IN
The first 1,600 km that the motorcycle is ridden is designated as the break-in period .
If the motorcycle is not used carefully during this period , you may very well end up with a “ broken down ” instead of a “ broken in ” motorcycle after a few thousand kilometers .
The following rules should be observed during the break-in period .
turns on the right hand vacuum pump .
The table shows maximum recommended engine speed during the break-in period .
Distance traveled
Maximum engine speed
- 15.2 V
4,000 r / min ( rpm )
Do not start moving or race the engine immediately after starting it , even if the engine is already warm .
Run the engine for two or three minutes at idle speed to give the oil a chance to work up into all the engine parts .
Do not race the engine while the transmission is in neutral .
New tires are slippery and may cause loss of control and injury .
A break-in period of 160 km is necessary to establish normal tire traction .
Leak Rate
advances the right hand press to depth .
During break-in , avoid sudden and maximum braking and acceleration , and hard cornering .
In addition to the above , at 1 000 km ( 600 mi ) it is extremely important that the owner have the initial maintenance service performed by an authorized dealer .
HOW TO RIDE THE MOTORCYCLE
Starting the Engine
Check that the engine stop switch is in the position .
A . Neutral Indicator Light
Ignition Switch
C . ON position
ensure the transmission is in neutral .
C . Neutral Indicator Light
returns the left hand press to the mid position .
D . Ignition Switch
E . ON position
The motorcycle is equipped with a vehicle-down sensor , which causes the engine to stop automatically and the Fi indicator light to flash when the motorcycle falls down .
After righting the motorcycle , first turn the ignition key to “ OFF ” and then back to “ ON ” before starting the engine .
Do not operate the starter continuously for more than 5 seconds , or the starter will overheat and the battery power will drop temporarily .
If your motorcycle battery is run down ” , it should be removed and charged .
Wait 15 seconds between each operation of the starter to let it cool and the battery power recover .
The motorcycle is equipped with a starter lockout switch .
However , the engine can be started if the clutch lever is pulled and the side stand is fully up .
A . Clutch Lever
Indicator block background is grey when advanced and grreen when returned .
Starter Lockout Switch
Do not let the engine idle longer than five minutes , or engine overheating and damage may occur .
Jump Starting
If your motorcycle battery is “ run down , ” it should be removed and charged .
If this is not practical , a 12 volt booster battery and jumper cables may be used to start the engine .
Battery acid generates hydrogen gas which is flammable and explosive under certain conditions .
It is present within a battery at all times , even in a discharged condition .
Keep all flames and sparks ( cigarettes ) away from the battery .
Wear eye protection when working with a battery .
In the event of battery acid contact with skin , eyes , or clothing , wash the affected areas immediately with water for at least five minutes .
returns the right hand press to the mid position .
Seek medical attention .
Connecting Jumper Cables
Remove the seat .
ensure the ignition key is turned to OFF .
Connect a jumper cable from the positive ( + ) terminal of the booster battery to the positive ( + ) terminal of the motorcycle battery .
A . Motorcycle Battery Positive ( + ) Terminal
From Booster Battery Positive ( + ) Terminal
C . Footpeg
D . From Booster Battery Negative ( - ) Terminal
Connect another jumper cable from the negative ( - ) terminal of the booster battery to your motorcycle footpeg or other unpainted metal surface .
presses and sealant applicators at initial , load station clear .
Do not use the negative ( - ) terminal of the battery .
Do not make this last connection at the fuel system or battery .
Take care that you do not touch the positive and negative cables together , and do not lean over the battery when making this last connection .
Do not jump start a frozen battery .
It could explode .
Do not reverse polarity by connecting positive ( + ) to negative ( - ) or a battery explosion and serious damage to the electrical system may occur .
Follow the standard engine starting procedure .
Do not operate the starter continuously for more than 5 seconds or the starter will overheat and the battery power will drop temporarily .
Reinstall the seat holder bracket and cover .
After the engine has started , disconnect the jumper cables .
( R2 ) RAISE INDEX TO MID :
Disconnect the negative ( - ) cable from the motorcycle first .
Reinstall the parts removed .
Moving Off
Check that the side stand is up .
Pull in the clutch lever .
Shift into 1st gear .
Open the throttle a little , and start to let out the clutch lever very slowly .
As the clutch starts to engage , open the throttle a little more , giving the engine just enough fuel to keep it from stalling .
A . Shift Pedal
When the headlight is on high beam , two headlight beams are lit , and on low beam , one headlight is lit .
Raises the index to mid position .
Shifting Gears
Close the throttle while pulling in the clutch lever .
Shift into the next higher or lower gear .
When shifting down to a lower gear , do not shift at such a high speed that the engine r / min ( rpm ) jumps excessively .
Not only can this cause engine damage , but the rear wheel may skid and cause an accident .
Downshifting should be done below 5,000 r / min ( rpm ) for each gear .
Open the throttle part way , while releasing the clutch lever .
The transmission is equipped with a positive neutral finder .
When the motorcycle is standing still , the transmission cannot be shifted past neutral from 1st gear .
To use the positive neutral finder , shift down to 1st gear , then lift up on the shift pedal while standing still .
Indicator block background is grey when lowered and green when at mid position .
The transmission will shift only into neutral .
Braking
Close the throttle completely , leaving the clutch engaged ( except when shifting gears ) so that the engine will help slow down the motorcycle .
Shift down one gear at a time so that you are in 1st gear when you come to a complete stop .
When stopping , always apply both brakes simultaneously .
Normally the front brake should be applied a little more than the rear .
Shift down or fully disengage the clutch as necessary to keep the engine from stalling .
Never lock the brakes , or it will cause the tires to skid .
When turning a corner , it is better not to brake at all .
Reduce your speed before you get into the corner .
no part in station .
For emergency braking , disregard downshifting , and concentrate on applying the brakes as hard as possible without skidding .
Even in motorcycles equipped with ABS , braking during cornering may cause wheel slip .
When turning a corner , it is better to limit braking to the light application of both brakes or not to brake at all .
A . Front Brake Lever
A . Rear Brake Pedal
Anti-lock Brake System ( ABS ) for models equipped with ABS
ABS is designed to help prevent the wheels from locking up when hard brakes are applied while running straight .
The ABS automatically regulates brake force .
Intermittently gaining gripping force and braking force helps prevent wheel lock-up and allows stable steering control while stopping .
Brake control function is identical to that of a conventional motorcycle .
( R1 ) START VIBRATOR :
The brake lever is used for the front brake and the brake pedal for the rear brake .
Although the ABS provides stability while stopping by preventing wheel lock-up , remember the following characteristics :
ABS cannot compensate for adverse road conditions , misjudgement or improper application of brakes .
You must take the same care as with motorcycles not equipped with ABS .
ABS is not designed to shorten the braking distance .
On loose , uneven or downhill surfaces , the stopping distance of a motorcycle with ABS may be longer than that of an equivalent motorcycle without ABS .
Use special caution in such areas .
ABS will help prevent wheel lock-up when braking in a straight line , but it cannot control wheel slip which may be caused by braking during cornering .
ABS will help prevent wheel lock-up during straight-up braking , but it cannot control wheel slip which may be caused by braking during cornering .
The computers integrated in the ABS compare vehicle speed with wheel speed .
starts the vibrator chute .
Since non-recommended tires can affect wheel speed , they may confuse the computers , which can extend braking distance .
Use of non-recommended tires may cause malfunctioning of ABS and can lead to extended braking distance .
The rider could have an accident as a result .
Always use recommended standard tires for this motorcycle .
When the ABS is functioning , you may feel a pulsing in the brake lever or pedal .
This is normal .
You need not suspend applying brakes .
ABS does not function at speeds of approx . 6 km / h or below .
Immediately after turning the ignition switch on , you may hear a click of the relay operating .
This is the sound of self-checking and is quite normal .
Indicator block background is grey when stopped and yellow when runnning .
ABS does not function at the speed of approx . 6 km / h or below .
ABS does not function if the battery is discharged .
ABS Indicator Light :
Normally the ABS indicator light comes on when the ignition switch is turned on and goes off shortly after the motorcycle starts moving .
If the indicator light shows any of the following , a fault or faults may have taken place in the ABS .
You should have the ABS checked by an authorized dealer .
The light does not come on when the ignition switch is turned on .
The light remains lit after the motorcycle starts moving .
The light comes on and remains lit after the motorcycle starts moving .
Remember that the ABS does not function when the indicator light is on , but if the ABS fails , the conventional brake system still works normally .
parts required .
Stopping the Engine
Close the throttle completely .
Shift the transmission into neutral .
You should be aware of and verify the applicable safety regulations in force prior to riding your motorcycle .
Turn the fuel tap lever to the ON position .
A . Fuel Tap
Stopping the Motorbike in an emergency
Your motornike has been designed and manufactured to provide you optimum safety and convenience .
However , in order to fully benefit from our extraordinary high leves of safety engineering and craftsmanship , it is essential that you , the owner and operator , properly maintain your motorcycle and become thoroughly familiar with its operation .
Improper maintenance can create a dangerous situation which is known as throttle failure .
( R2 ) STOP VIBRATOR :
Improper maintenance can create a dangerous situation known as throttle failure .
The maintenance and adjustments outlined in this chapter must be carried out in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart to keep the motorcycle in good running condition .
During removal of the air cleaner , dirt is allowed to enter and jam the fuel injection system .
In an emergency situation such as throttle failure , your vehicle may be stopped by applying the brakes and disengaging the clutch .
Once this stopping procedure is initiated , the engine stop switch may be used to stop the engine .
If the engine stop switch is used , turn off the ignition switch after stopping the motorcycle .
Parking
The muffler and exhaust pipe are very hot while the engine is running and just after the engine stops .
Do not idle or park your vehicle in an area where flammable materials such as grasses or dry leaves may come in with the muffler or exhaust pipe .
Shift the transmission into neutral and turn the ignition key to “ OFF ” .
stops the vibrator chute .
Slack 30 - 35 mm .
Do not park on a soft or steeply inclined surface , or the motorcycle may fall over .
If parking inside a garage or other structure , be sure it is well ventilated and the motorcycle is not close to any source of flame or sparks ; this includes any appliance with a pilot light .
The muffler and exhaust pipe are very hot while the engine is running and just after the engine stop .
This can ignite a fire , resulting in property damage or severe personal injury .
Do not idle or park your vehicle in an area where flammable materials such as grasses or dry leaves may contact with muffler or exhaust pipe .
Lock the steering to help prevent theft .
When stopping near traffic at night , you can leave the taillight on for greater visibility by turning the ignition key to the P ( park ) position .
Do not leave the ignition switch at P position too long , or the battery will discharge .
Catalytic Converter
Indicator block background is grey when runnning and green when stopped .
This motorcycle is equipped with a catalytic converter in the exhaust system .
Platinum and rhodium in the converter react with carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons to convert them into carbon dioxide and water resulting in much cleaner exhaust gases to be discharged into the atmosphere .
For proper operation of the catalytic converter , the following cautions must be observed .
Use only unleaded gasoline .
Never use leaded gasoline .
Leaded gasoline significantly reduces the capability of the catalytic converter .
Do not coast the vehicle with the ignition switch and / or engine stop switch off .
Do not attempt to start the engine by rolling the vehicle if the battery is discharged .
Do not operate the vehicle with the engine or any one cylinder misfiring .
Under these conditions unburned air / fuel mixture flowing out of engine excessively accelerates reaction in the converter allowing the converter to overheat and become damaged when the engine is hot , or reduces converter performance when the engine is cold .
parts not required .
SAFE OPERATION
Safe Riding Technique
The points given below are applicable for everyday motorcycle use and should be carefully observed for safe and effective vehicle operation .
For safety , eye protection and a helmet are strongly recommended .
Gloves and suitable footwear should also be used for added protection in case of a mishap .
A motorcycle does not provide the impact protection of an automobile , so defensive riding in addition to wearing protective apparel is extremely important .
Do not let protective apparel give you a false sense of security .
Before changing lanes , look over your shoulder to ensure the way is clear .
Do not rely solely on the rear view mirror ; you may misjudge a vehicle ' s distance and speed , or you may not see it at all .
When going up steep slopes , shift to a lower gear so that there is plenty of power to spare rather than overloading the engine .
R / H Loctite lube
When applying the brakes , use both the front and rear brakes .
Applying only one brake for sudden braking may cause the motorcycle to skid and lose control .
When going down long slopes , control vehicle speed by closing the throttle .
Use the front and rear brakes for auxiliary braking .
On rainy days , rely more on the throttle to control vehicle speed and less on the front and rear brakes .
The throttle should also be used judiciously to avoid skidding the rear wheel from too rapid acceleration or deceleration .
Riding at the proper rate of speed and avoiding unnecessarily fast acceleration are important not only for safety and low fuel consumption but also for long vehicle life and quieter operation .
When riding in wet conditions or on loose roadway surfaces , the ability to maneuver will be reduced .
All of your actions should be smooth under these conditions .
Sudden acceleration , braking or turning may cause loss of control .
L / H Loctite lube
On rough roads , exercise caution , slow down , and grip the fuel tank with the knees for better stability .
When quick acceleration is necessary as in passing , shift to a lower gear to obtain the necessary power .
Do not downshift at too high an r / min ( rpm ) to avoid damage to the engine from overrevving .
Avoiding unnecessary weaving is important to the safety of both the rider and other motorists .
Daily Safety Checks
Check the following items each day before you ride .
The time required is minimal , and habitual performance of these checks will help ensure you a safe , reliable ride .
Fuel
This is a 4-stroke engine that requires a gasoline .
Adequate supply in tank , no leaks .
Normally , the pump feeds wash solution to the filter and the outlet from the filter is fed via a diverter valve to the wash jets in the wash compartment .
Engine oil
Oil level between level lines .
Tires
Throttle grip play 2 - 3 mm .
Overall condition good
Air pressure ( when cold ) :
Up to 180 kg Load
250 kPa ( 2.50 kg / cm ² )
Install the air valve cap .
Drive chain
Fill Pressure
The pump runs continuously and during the wash cycle the diverter valve opens and allows solution to be fed to the wash jets .
Slack 25 - 35 mm
Lubricate the dive chain if dry .
Nuts , bolts , fasteners
Check that steering and suspension components , axles , and all controls are properly tightened or fastened .
Steering
Steering Damper Unit : No oil leakage .
Action smooth but not loose from lock to lock .
No binding of control cables .
Brakes
Brake pad wear : Lining thickness more than 1 mm left .
When the wash cycle ends the diverter valve is shut and a small amount of solution is fed via a small-bore divert pipe fitted round the diverter valve to keep the pipe to the wash jets full thus avoiding water hammer when the diverter valve reopens .
No brake fluid leakage .
Throttle
Return spring not weak or not damaged .
Refer to the " Daily Safety Checks " caution label attached to the back of the left side cover .
Throttle grip play 2 - 3 mm
Clutch
Clutch lever play 2 - 3 mm .
Functions properly
Clutch lever play 2 - 3 mm
Clutch lever operates smoothly .
If a cup plug hole is detected as being filled during the probe cycle , the relevant sealant and press cycle are inhibited , while the other continues .
Coolant
No coolant leakage .
Coolant level between level lines ( when engine is cold ) .
Electrical equipment
All lights ( Headlight , Tail / Brake Lights , Turn Signal Lights , Warning / Indicator Lights ) and horn work .
Engine stop switch
Stops engine .
Side stand
Returns to its fully up position by spring tension .
Returns spring not weak or not damaged .
The block is arrested by a stop and raised on the index which clamps the block into an overhead locator to accurately position the block .
Refer to the “ Daily Safety Checks ” caution label attached to the toolkit / U-shaped lock compartment .
Additional Considerations for High Speed Operation
Brakes : The importance of the brakes , especially during high speed operation , cannot be overemphasized .
Check to see that they are correctly adjusted and functioning properly .
Steering : Looseness in the steering can cause loss of control .
Check to see that the handlebar turns freely but has no play .
Tires : High speed operation is hard on tires , and good tires are crucial for riding safety .
Examine their overall condition , inflate them to the proper pressure , and check the wheel balance .
Fuel : Have sufficient fuel for the high fuel consumption during high speed operation .
Engine Oil : To avoid engine seizure and resulting loss of control , ensure that the oil level is at the upper level line .
NB .
Coolant : To avoid overheating , check that the coolant level is at the upper level line .
Electrical Equipment : ensure that the headlight , tail / brake light , turn signals , horn , etc . , all work properly .
Miscellaneous : ensure that all nuts and bolts are tight and that all safety related parts are in good condition .
Handling characteristics of a motorcycle at high speeds may vary from those you are familiar with at legal highway speeds .
Do not attempt high speed operation unless you have received sufficient training and have the required skills .
MAINTENANCE AND ADJUSTMENT
The maintenance and adjustments outlined in this chapter must be carried out and must be done in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart to keep the motorcycle in good running condition .
Please note that we cannot assume any responsibility for damage resulting from incorrect or improper adjustment done by the owner .
Periodic Maintenance Chart
K :
The operation described below takes place simultaneously on each side of the block :
Should be serviced by an authorized dealer .
For higher odometer readings , repeat at the frequency interval established here .
Service more frequently when operating in severe conditions : dusty , wet , muddy , high speed , or frequent starting / stopping .
Periodic Inspection ( Engine Related Items )
Frequency
Brake hose and pipe installation condition - inspect
6 month
Whichever comes first
Odometer Reading
km 1,000
If the cup plug fails to reach depth , the cycle will fail , and the block coded as reject .
See
Page
Operation ( Engine Items )
Every
Air cleaner element - clean
Valve clearance - inspect
Every 1,000 km
Throttle control system ( play , smooth return , no drag ) - inspect
year
This machine consists of two main elements , comprising of a sorter feeder unit for the cup plugs and the cup plug insertion unit .
Engine vacuum synchronization - inspect
Idle speed - inspect
Fuel leak ( fuel hose and pipe ) - inspect
Fuel hoses damage - inspect
Fuel hoses installation condition - inspect
Coolant level - inspect
Coolant leak - inspect
Radiator hose damage - inspect
Radiator hoses installation condition - inspect
Air suction system damage - inspect
The cup plugs are presented to each side of the station from the feeder unit which sorts and presents the cup plugs in the correct orientation to the station ‘ cup plug escapement ’ .
Periodic Inspection ( Chassis Related Items )
Operation ( Chassis Items )
Clutch and drive train :
Clutch operation ( play , engagement , disengagement ) - inspect
Drive chain lubrication condition - inspect #
every 1,000 km
Drive chain slack - inspect #
Drive chain wear - inspect #
Drive chain guide wear - inspect
Wheels and tires :
The block is presented to the cup plug station on friction roller conveyor combustion face up , front end leading .
Tire air pressure - inspect
Wheels / tires damage - inspect
Tire tread wear , abnormal wear - inspect
Wheel bearings damage - inspect
Brake system :
Brake fluid leak - inspect
Brake hoses and pipe damage - inspect
Brake pad wear - inspect #
Brake hose installation condition - inspect
Brake fluid level - inspect
only selected parts are worked on .
6 months
Brake operation ( effectiveness , play , drag ) - inspect
Brake light switch operation - inspect
Suspensions :
Front forks / rear shock absorber operation ( damping and smooth stroke ) - inspect
Front forks / rear shock absorber oil leak - inspect
Steering System :
Steering play - inspect
Steering stem bearings - lubricate
The block is probed to ensure that cup plug is not already fitted , the probe withdraws and the cup plug is released from the escapement .
2 years
Electrical System :
Lights and switches operation - inspect
Headlight aiming - inspect
Oil Filler Cap
Side stand switch operation - inspect
Engine stop switch operation - inspect
Chassis :
Chassis parts - lubricate
Bolts and nuts tightness - inspect
Locktite dispencers apply sealant to the cup plug hole and the cuip plug is inserted into the block inserted into the block .
Periodic Replacement
Change / Replacement Items
Air cleaner element #
2 year
Engine oil #
Oil filter
Fuel hoses
Radiator hoses and O-rings
Brake hoses and pipe
Brake fluid ( front and rear )
The probe / pusher slide moves to the second cup plug position and repeats the probe / sealant / insertion cycle .
Rubber parts of master cylinder and caliper
In order for the engine , transmission , and clutch to function properly , maintain the engine oil at the proper level , and change the oil and replace the oil filter in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Not only do dirt and metal particles collect in the oil , but the oil itself loses its lubricative quality if used too long .
Motorcycle operation with insufficient , deteriorated , or contaminated engine oil will cause accelerated wear and may result in engine or transmission seizure , accident , and injury .
Oil Level Inspection
If the oil has just been changed , start the engine and run it for several minutes at idle speed .
This fills the oil filter with oil .
Stop the engine , then wait several minutes until the oil settles .
Racing the engine before the oil reaches every part can cause engine seizure .
If the motorcycle has just been used , wait several minutes for all the oil to drain down .
When the cycle is complete the slides return to the initial position , the index lowers , the stop releases the part to the next station .
Check the engine oil level through the oil level gauge .
With the motorcycle held level , the oil level should come up between the upper and lower level lines next to the gauge .
A . Oil Level Gauge
Upper Level Line
C . Lower Level Line
D . Oil Filler Cap
If the oil level is too high , remove the excess oil through the oil filler opening using a syringe or some other suitable device .
If the oil level is too low , add the oil to reach the correct level .
Use the same type and brand of oil that is already in the engine .
If the engine oil gets extremely low or if the oil pump does not function properly or oil passages are clogged , the warning light in the tachometer will light .
Upon exit from the cup plug machine , the block is presented to the load station by friction roller conveyor .
If this light stays on when the engine speed is slightly above the idle speed , stop the engine immediately and find the cause .
A . Oil Pressure Warning Light
Oil and / or Oil Filter Change
Warm up the engine thoroughly , and then stop it .
Place an oil pan beneath the engine .
Remove the engine oil drain plug .
A . Drain Plug
Let the oil completely drain with the motorcycle perpendicular to the ground .
If a torque wrench or required special tool is not available , this item should be serviced by a dealer .
A . Cartridge
PART RELEASED FROM AUTOMATION PRESTOP
Apply a thin film of oil to the packing and tighten the cartridge to the specified torque .
A . Packing
Install the drain plug with a new gasket .
Install the drain plug with its new gasket .
Tighten it to the specified torque .
Replace any gaskets with new ones .
Fill the engine up to the upper level line with a good quality engine oil specified in the table .
Start the engine .
Check the oil level and oil leakage .
Engine Oil Drain Plug :
CHECK PART TYPE
9.8 N · m ( 1.0 kgf · m )
Cartridge :
3.1 L
Recommended Engine Oil
1.30 L
Viscosity :
Engine Oil Capacity
1.7 L
[ when filter is not removed ]
1.9 L
ADVANCE PRESSES LOW PPRESSURE
[ when filter is removed ]
[ when engine is completely dry ]
Although 10W-40 engine oil is the recommended oil for most conditions , the oil viscosity may need to be changed to accommodate atmospheric conditions in your riding area .
Cooling System
Radiator and Cooling Fan -
Check the radiator fins for obstruction by insects or mud .
Clean off any obstructions with a stream of low-pressure water .
The cooling fan turns on automatically , even with the ignition switch off .
Keep your hands and clothing away from the fan blades at all times .
Using high-pressure water , as from a car wash facility , could damage the radiator fins and impair the radiator ' s effectiveness .
RETURN PRESSES MID POSITION
Do not obstruct or deflect airflow through the radiator by installing unauthorized accessories in front of the radiator or behind the cooling fan .
Interference with the radiator airflow can lead to overheating and consequent engine damage .
Radiator Hoses -
Check the radiator hoses for leakage , cracks or deterioration , and connections for leakage or looseness each day before riding the motorcycle , and in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Coolant -
Coolant absorbs excessive heat from the engine and transfers it to the air at the radiator .
If the coolant level becomes low , the engine overheats and may suffer severe damage .
Check the coolant level each day before riding the motorcycle , and in accordance with the periodic maintenance chart and replenish coolant if the level is low .
Change the coolant in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Information for Coolant
It is not advisable to join more than 2 metres of pipe length to the T junction .
Test press .
ADVANCE CARRIAGE ASSEMBLIES
To protect the cooling system ( consisting of the aluminum engine and radiator ) from rust and corrosion , the use of corrosion and rust inhibitor chemicals in the coolant is essential .
If coolant containing corrosion and rust inhibitor chemicals is not used , over a period of time , the cooling system accumulates rust and scale in the water jacket and radiator .
This will clog up the coolant passages , and considerably reduce the efficiency of the cooling system .
Use coolant containing corrosion inhibitors made specifically for aluminum engines and radiators in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer .
Chemicals are harmful to the human body .
Soft or distilled water must be used with the antifreeze ( see below for antifreeze ) in the cooling system .
If hard water is used in the system , it causes scale accumulation in the water passages , and considerably reduces the efficiency of the cooling system .
If the lowest ambient temperature encountered falls below the freezing point of water , use permanent antifreeze in the coolant to protect the cooling system against engine and radiator freeze-up , as well as from rust and corrosion .
Use a permanent type of antifreeze ( soft water and ethylene glycol plus corrosion and rust inhibitor chemicals for aluminum engines and radiators ) in the cooling system .
On the mixture ratio of coolant , choose the suitable one referring to the relation between freezing point and strength directed on the container .
RAISE PUSHER
Permanent types of antifreeze on the market have anti-corrosion and anti-rust properties .
When it is diluted excessively , it loses its anti-corrosion property .
Dilute a permanent type of antifreeze in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer .
A permanent type of antifreeze is installed in the cooling system when shipped .
It is colored green and contains ethylene glycol .
It is mixed at 50 % and has the freezing point of -35 ° C .
Coolant Level Inspection
Situate the motorcycle so that it is perpendicular to the ground .
Check the coolant level if it is between the F ( Full ) and L ( Low ) level lines .
A . F ( Full ) Level Line
ADVANCE SELANT CARRIAGES
L ( Low ) Level Line
C . Right Side Cover
Check the level when the engine is cold ( room or atmospheric temperature ) .
If the amount of coolant is insufficient , add coolant into the reserve tank .
If the amount of coolant is insufficient , remove the right cowl and add coolant into the reserve tank .
Coolant Filling
Remove the windshield .
Remove the right cowl by removing the bolt .
A . Right Cowl
Bolt
CHECK PLUGS NOT FITTED
To install the right cowl , fit the projection into the hole .
Tighten the bolts in the order directed .
Situate the motorcycle perpendicular to the ground until the radiator cap is level to the ground .
Remove the cap from the reserve tank and add coolant through the filler opening to the full level line .
A . Cap
Reserve Tank
Install the cap .
Install the right cowl by fitting the projection into the hole and tightening the bolt .
Projection
C . Hole
APPLY SEALANT
In an emergency you can add water alone to the coolant reserve tank , however it must be returned to the correct mixture ratio by the addition of antifreeze concentrate as soon as possible .
If coolant must be added often , or the reserve tank completely runs dry , there is probably leakage in the system .
Have the cooling system inspected by your authorized dealer .
Coolant Change
Have the coolant changed by an authorized dealer .
Standard Plug :
The standard spark plug is shown in the table .
The spark plugs should be replaced in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Spark plug removal should be done by an authorized dealer .
Spark Plug
RETURN SELANT CARRIAGES
Standard Plug
Plug Gap
( 1.5 kgf · m )
A . Plug Gap
When the spent fuel charge is released into the exhaust system , it is still hot enough to burn .
The HQ System allows extra air into the exhaust system so that the spent fuel charge can continue to burn .
This continued burning action tends to burn up a great deal of the normally unburned gases , as well as changing a significant portion of the carbon monoxide into carbon dioxide .
Any air that has passed the air suction valve is prevented from returning .
Air suction valve removal and inspection should be carried out by an authorized dealer .
The following drawing set is supplied for the Lubrication system .
Inspect the air suction valves in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Also , inspect the air suction valves whenever stable idling cannot be obtained , engine power is greatly reduced , or there are abnormal engine noises .
Air suction valve removal and inspection should be done by an authorized dealer .
Valve Clearance
Valve and valve seat wear decreases valve clearance , upsetting valve timing .
If valve clearance is left unadjusted , wear will eventually cause the valves to remain partly open , which lowers performance , burns the valves and valve seats , and may cause serious engine damage .
Valve clearance for each valve should be checked and adjusted in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Inspection and adjustment should be done by an authorized dealer .
A clogged air cleaner restricts the engine ' s air intake , increasing fuel consumption , reducing engine power , and causing spark plug fouling .
The air cleaner element must be cleaned in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Drawing Number 070 ZE 9N 0729000 sheets 0-5
In dusty , rainy , or muddy conditions , the air cleaner element should be serviced more frequently than the recommended interval by an authorized dealer .
Oil Draining
Inspect the drain hose located on the rear side of the engine to see if any oil or water has run down from the air cleaner housing .
A . Drain Hose
Plug
If there are any oil in the reservoir , remove the plug from the lower end of the drain hose and drain the oil .
Be sure to install the plug in the drain hose after draining .
Oil on tires will make them slippery and can cause an accident and injury .
Throttle Control System
Check the throttle grip play in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart , and adjust it if necessary .
The following drawing set is supplied for the hydraulic system
Throttle Grip -
The throttle grip controls the butterfly valves in the throttle body .
If the throttle grip has excessive play due to either cable stretch or maladjustment , it will cause a delay in throttle response , especially at low engine speed .
Also , the throttle valve may not open fully at full throttle .
On the other hand , if the throttle grip has not play , the throttle will be hard to control , and the idle speed will be erratic .
Inspection
Check that the throttle grip play is correct by lightly turning the throttle grip back and forth .
A . Throttle Grip
Throttle Grip Play
7.05 - 7.20 mm
Drawing Number 070 ZE 9N 0706000 sheets 0-11
If there is improper play , adjust it .
Loosen the locknut at the upper end of the throttle cable and turn the throttle cable adjusting nut in completely so as to give the throttle grip plenty of play .
A . Locknut
Adjuster
C . Throttle Cable ( Accelerator Cable )
Turn out the decelerator cable adjusting nut until there is no play when the throttle grip is completely closed .
Tighten the locknut .
Locknut
C . Decelerator Cable
Turn out the accelerator cable adjusting nut until a play of 2 - 3 mm is obtained at the throttle grip .
1.37 bar
The following drawing set is supplied for the pneumatic system
Operation with an improperly adjusted , incorrectly routed , or damaged cables could result in an unsafe riding condition .
Engine Vacuum Synchronization
Engine vacuum synchronization must be checked and adjusted periodically in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart by an authorized dealer .
Poor engine vacuum synchronization will cause unstable idling , sluggish throttle response , and reduce engine power and performance .
Idle Speed
The idle speed adjustment should be performed in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart or whenever the idle speed is disturbed .
The idle speed check should be performed in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart or whenever the idle speed is disturbed .
Start the engine , and warm it up thoroughly .
Adjust the idle speed by turning the idle adjusting screw .
A . Idle Adjusting Screw
Drawing Number 070 ZE 9N 0707000 sheets 0-13
1,250 - 1,350 r / min ( rpm )
Open and close the throttle a few times to ensure that the idle speed does not change .
Readjust if necessary .
With the engine idling , turn the handlebar to each side .
If handlebar movement changes the idle speed , the throttle cables may be improperly adjusted or incorrectly routed , or they may be damaged .
Be sure to correct any of these conditions before riding .
Operation with damaged cables could result in an unsafe riding condition .
Due to friction plate wear and clutch cable stretch over a long period of use , the clutch operation should be checked each day before riding the motorcycle , and in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
To avoid a serious burn , never touch a hot engine or an exhaust pipe during clutch adjustment .
Check that the clutch lever operates properly and that the inner cable slides smoothly .
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
If there is any irregularity , have the clutch cable checked by an authorized dealer .
Check the clutch lever play as shown in the figure .
Clutch Lever Play
C . Adjuster
If the play is incorrect , adjust the lever play as follows .
Be sure the upper end of the clutch outer cable is fully seated in its fitting , or it could slip into place later , creating enough cable play to prevent clutch disengagement , resulting in a hazardous riding condition .
Loosen the locknut , and turn the adjuster so that the clutch lever will have the proper play .
If it cannot be done , use the nuts at the lower end of the clutch cable .
A . Nuts
Clutch Cable
FRAME ASSEMBLY
After the adjustment is made , start the engine and check that the clutch does not slip and that it releases properly .
For minor corrections , use the adjuster at the clutch lever .
The drive chain slack and lubrication must be checked each day before riding the motorcycle , and in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart for safety and to prevent excessive wear .
If the chain becomes badly worn or maladjusted - either too loose or too tight - the chain could jump off the sprockets or break .
A chain that breaks or jumps off the sprockets could snag on the engine sprocket or lock the rear wheel , severely damaging the motorcycle and causing it to go out of control .
Chain Slack Inspection
Set the motorcycle up on its side stand .
Rotate the rear wheel to find the position where the chain is tightest , and measure the maximum chain slack by pulling up and pushing down the chain midway between the engine sprocket and rear wheel sprocket .
A . Chain Slack
If the drive chain is too tight or too loose , adjust it so that the chain slack will be within the standard value .
CUP PLUG PRESS ASSEMBLY
Remove the chain cover .
Drive Chain Slack
Chain Slack Adjustment
Loosen the left and right chain adjuster locknuts .
Remove the cotter pin , and loosen the axle nut .
A . Axle Nut
Cotter Pin
D . Locknut
If the chain is too loose , turn out the left and right chain adjusters evenly .
If the chain is too tight , turn in the left and right chain adjusters evenly .
Locks left hand reaction unit .
Turn out both chain adjusters evenly until the drive chain has the correct amount of slack .
To keep the chain and wheel properly aligned , the notch on the left wheel alignment indicator should align with the same swingarm mark that the right indicator notch aligns with .
A . Marks
Notch
Tighten the axle nut to the specified torque .
A . Turn Clockwise
C . Indicator
D . Adjuster
E . Locknut
Wheel alignment can also be checked using the straightedge or string method .
Manual Screen 10 – Sequence 1
Misalignment of the wheel will result in abnormal wear , and may result in an unsafe riding condition .
Tighten both chain adjuster locknuts .
Tighten the rear axle nut to the specified torque .
Axle Nut :
If a torque wrench is not available , this item should be serviced by a qualified technician .
Rotate the wheel , measure the chain slack again at the tightest position , and readjust if necessary .
Install a new cotter pin through the rear axle nut and axle , and spread its ends .
A . Cotter Pin
When inserting the cotter pin , if the slots in the nut do not align with the cotter pin hole in the axle shaft , tighten the nut clockwise up to the next alignment .
It should be within 30 degree .
( R1 ) LOWER INDEX TO BOTTOM :
Loosen once and tighten again when the slot goes past the nearest hole .
A . Turning Clockwise
If the axle nut is not securely tightened or the cotter pin is not installed , an unsafe riding condition may result .
Check the rear brake ( see the Brakes section ) .
Wear Inspection
Remove the bolts to take off the chain guide .
A . Chain Guide
Stretch the chain taut either by using the chain adjusters , or by hanging a 10 kg weight on the chain .
A . Projection
Measure the length of 20 links on the straight part of the chain from pin center of the 1st pin to pin center of the 21st pin .
lowers the index fully to release part .
Since the chain may wear unevenly , take measurements at several places .
If the length exceeds the service limit , the chain should be replaced .
A . Measure
Service Limit : 323 mm
Weight
Drive Chain 20-Link Length
Service Limit
For safety , use only the standard chain .
It is an endless type and should not be cut for installation ; have it installed by an authorized dealer .
Rotate the rear wheel to inspect the drive chain for damaged rollers , and loose pins and links .
Indicator block background is grey when at mid and yellow when lowered .
Also inspect the sprockets for unevenly or excessively worn teeth , and damaged teeth .
Sprocket wear is exaggerated for illustration .
See Service Manual for wear limits .
A . Good Teeth
Worn Teeth
C . Damaged Teeth
If there is any irregularity , have the drive chain and / or the sprockets replaced by an authorized dealer .
Lubrication
Lubrication is also necessary after riding through rain or on wet roads , or any time that the chain appears dry .
A heavy oil such as SAE 90 is preferred to a lighter oil because it will stay on the chain longer and provide better lubrication .
Gauge .
L / H REACTION UNIT ASSEMBLY
Apply oil to the sides of the rollers so that it will penetrate to the rollers and bushings .
Apply oil to the O-rings so that the O-rings will be coated with oil .
Wipe off any excess oil .
If the chain is especially dirty , clean it using diesel oil or kerosine and then apply oil as mentioned above .
Brake Wear Inspection
Inspect the brakes for wear .
For each front and rear disc brake caliper , if the thickness of either pad is less than 1 mm , replace both pads in the caliper as a set .
Pad replacement should be done by an qualified engineer .
A . Lining Thickness
CHECK SEALANT APPLIED
The brake fluid level in the front brake fluid reservoir must be kept above the line ( lower level line ) next to the gauge and that in the rear brake fluid reservoir ( located under the seat ) must be kept between the upper and lower level lines ( reservoirs held horizontal ) .
5 turns out
The steering should always be kept adjusted so that the handlebar will turn freely but not have excessive play .
Disc Brake Fluid -
In accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart , inspect the brake fluid level in both the front and rear brake fluid reservoirs and change the brake fluid .
The brake fluid should also be changed if it becomes contaminated with dirt or water .
Fluid Requirement
Use heavy-duty brake fluid only from a container marked DOT4 .
Do not spill brake fluid onto any painted surface .
Do not use fluid from a container that has been left open or that has been unsealed for a long time .
RETURN CARRIAGE ASSEMBLIES
Check for fluid leakage around the fittings .
Check brake hose for damage .
Fluid Level Inspection
The brake fluid level in the front brake fluid reservoir must be kept above the line ( lower level line ) next to the gauge and that in the rear brake fluid reservoir ( located near the rear fender ) must be kept between the upper and lower level lines ( reservoirs held horizontal ) .
A . Front Brake Fluid Reservoir
Lower Level Line
A . Rear Brake Fluid Reservoir
If the fluid level in either reservoir is lower than the lower level line , check for fluid leaks in the brake lines , and fill the reservoir to the upper level line .
Inside the front brake fluid reservoir is a stepped line showing the upper level line .
Do not mix two brands of brake fluid .
R / H REACTION UNIT ASSEMBLY
Change the brake fluid in the brake line completely if the brake fluid must be refilled but the type and brand of the brake fluid that is already in the reservoir are unidentified .
First , tighten until slight resistance is felt indicating that the cap is seated on the reservoir body ; then , tighten the cap an additional 1 / 6 turn while holding the brake fluid reservoir body .
A . Reservoir
Cap
C . Clockwise
D . 1 / 6 turn
Fluid Change
Have the brake fluid changed by an authorized dealer .
Front and Rear Brakes -
Disc and disc pad wear is automatically compensated for and has no effect on the brake lever or pedal action .
UNLOCK REACTION UNITS
So there are no parts that require adjustment on the front brakes and rear brakes .
If the brake lever or pedal feels mushy when it is applied , there might be air in the brake lines or the brake may be defective .
Since it is dangerous to operate the motorcycle under such conditions , have the brake checked immediately by an authorized dealer .
Brake Light Switches
When either the front or rear brake is applied , the brake light goes on .
Turn the ignition key to ON .
The front brake light switch requires no adjustment , but the rear brake light switch should be adjusted in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
The brake light should go on when the front brake is applied .
If it does not , ask your authorized dealer to inspect the front brake light switch .
Check the operation of the rear brake light switch by depressing the brake pedal .
ADVANCE REACTION UNITS
The brake light should go on after the proper pedal travel .
A . Brake Pedal
Pedal Travel
If it does not , adjust the rear brake light switch .
Brake Pedal Travel
Disconnect the connector .
A . Connector
To adjust the rear brake light switch , move the switch up or down by turning the switch body .
A . Rear Brake Light Switch
Adjusting Nut
LOCK REACTION UNITS
C . Lights sooner
D . Lights later
Connect the connector .
The front fork operation and oil leakage should be checked in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Front Fork Inspection
Holding the brake lever , pump the front fork up and down by several times for inspection of smooth stroke .
Visually inspect the front fork for oil leakage , scoring or scratches on the outer surface of the inner tube .
If any doubt about the front fork , it should be done by an authorized dealer .
On top of right fork leg is a rebound damping force adjuster , so that the damping force can be adjusted for different riding and loading conditions .
A . Inner Tube
RETURN PRESSES
On top of the right front fork leg is the rebound damping force adjuster , so that the damping force can be adjusted for different riding and loading conditions .
Weaker spring force and damping force are for comfortable riding , but they should be increased for high speed riding or riding on rough roads .
A . Rebound Damping Force Adjuster
15 mm from top of adjuster
Do not force to turn the rebound damping force adjuster from the fully seated position , at the adjusting mechanism may be damaged .
Rebound Damping Force Adjustment
Turn the rebound damping force adjuster all the way into the spring preload adjuster with a screwdriver .
This makes the damping force greatest .
Turn out the adjuster to decrease damping force .
Be sure to turn both adjusters by the same number of turns .
OPEN RELEASE CYLINDERS
Screwdriver
The standard setting positions of the rebound damping force adjuster for an average-build rider of 68 kg with no passenger and no accessories are as follows :
1 3 / 4 turns out *
* : out from the fully seated position
Rear Shock Absorbers
The rear shock absorber operation and oil leakage should be checked in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Rear Shock Absorber Inspection
Press down on the seat several times to check if the rear shock absorber stroke is smooth .
Visually inspect the rear shock absorber for oil leakage .
If any doubt about the rear shock absorber , it should be done by an authorized dealer .
VACUUM ON
A . Rear Shock Absorber
The rear shock absorber can be adjusted by changing the spring preload and rebound damping force for various riding and loading conditions .
Spring Preload Adjustment
The spring preload adjuster on the rear shock absorber has 7 positions .
A . Spring Preload Adjuster
Wrench
In accordance with the following table , turn the preload adjuster with the wrench from the tool kit .
Position
Spring Action
Stronger — — →
Marposs E9066N Gauge unit .
ADVANCE PRESSES
The standard setting position for an average-build rider of 68 kg with no passenger and no accessories is No . 5 .
This unit contains high pressure nitrogen gas .
Mishandling can cause explosion .
Read Service Manual for instructions .
Do not incinerate , puncture or open .
Wheels
Tire Air Pressure
Tubeless tires are installed on the wheels of this motorcycle .
The indications of TUBELESS on the tire side wall and the rim show that the tire and rim are specially designed for tubeless use .
A . TUBELESS Mark
RETURN PRESSES TO MID
The tire and rim form a leakproof unit by making airtight contacts at the tire chamfers and the rim flanges instead of using an inner tube .
The tires , rims , and air valves on this motorcycle are designed only for tubeless type wheels .
The recommended standard tires , rims , and air valves must be used for replacement .
Do not install tube-type tires on tubeless rims .
The beads may not seat properly on the rim causing tire deflation .
Do not install a tube inside a tubeless tire .
Excessive heat build-up may damage the tube causing tire deflation .
Tires -
Size : 120 / 70ZR17 M / C ( 58 W )
Payload and Tire Pressure
CLOSE RELEASE CYLINDERS
Failure to maintain proper inflation pressures or observe payload limits for your tires may adversely affect handling and performance of your motorcycle and can result in loss of control .
The maximum recommended load in addition to vehicle weight is 180 kg , including rider , passenger , baggage , and accessories .
Remove the air valve cap .
Check the tire pressure often , using an accurate gauge .
ensure to install the air valve cap securely .
A . Tire Pressure Gauge
Measure the tire pressure when the tires are cold ( that is , when the motorcycle has not been ridden more than a mile during the past 3 hours ) .
Tire pressure is affected by changes in ambient temperature and altitude , and so the tire pressure should be checked and adjusted when your riding involves wide variations in temperature or altitude .
Tire Air Pressure ( when cold )
225 kPa ( 2.3 kgf / cm ² )
RETURN REACTION UNITS
Tire Wear , Damage
As the tire tread wears down , the tire becomes more susceptible to puncture and failure .
An accepted estimate is that 90 % of all tire failures occur during the last 10 % of tread life ( 90 % worn ) .
So it is false economy and unsafe to use the tires until they are bald .
In accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart , measure the depth of the tread with a depth gauge , and replace any tire that has worn down to the minimum allowable tread depth .
A . Tire Depth Gauge
Minimum Tread Depth
Under 130 km / h
Over 130 km / h
Visually inspect the tire for cracks and cuts , replacing the tire in case of bad damage .
LOWER INDEX UNIT TO MID
Swelling or high spots indicate internal damage , requiring tire replacement .
Remove any imbedded stones or other foreign particles from the tread .
Most countries may have their own regulations requiring a minimum tire tread depth ; be sure to follow them .
Have the wheel balance inspected whenever a new tire is installed .
To ensure safe handling and stability , use only the recommended standard tires for replacement , inflated to the standard pressure .
Tires that have been punctured and repaired do not have the same capabilities as undamaged tires .
Do not exceed 100 km / h ( 60 mph ) within 24 hours after repair , and 180 km / h ( 110 mph ) at any time after that .
When operating on public roadways , keep maximum speed under traffic law limits .
Standard Tire ( Tubeless )
Size : 120 / 70ZR17 M / C ( 58W )
CHECK LOAD CLEAR
Size : 160 / 60ZR17 M / C ( 69W )
Use the same manufacturer ' s tires on both front and rear wheels .
The battery installed in this motorcycle is a sealed type , so it is not necessary to check the battery electrolyte level or add distilled water .
The sealing strip should not be pulled off once the specified electrolyte has been installed in the battery for initial service .
However , in order to maximize battery life and ensure that it will provide the power needed to start the motorcycle you must properly maintain the battery ' s charge .
When used regularly , the charging system in the motorcycle helps keep the battery fully charged .
If your motorcycle is only used occasionally or for short periclip of time , the battery is more likely to discharge .
LOWER INDEX TO BOTTOM
Due to their internal composition , batteries continually self discharge .
The discharge rate depends on the type of battery and ambient temperature .
As temperatures rise , so does the discharge rate .
Every 15 ° C doubles the rate .
Electrical accessories , such as digital clocks and computer memory , also draw current from the battery even when the key is switched off .
Combine such “ key-off ” draws with hot temperature , and a battery can go from fully charged to completely discharged in a matter of days .
Self-discharge
Temperature
Approx . Number of Days From 100 % Charged to 100 % discharged
Lead-Antimony
WAIT PART CLEAR / AT LOAD STATION
Lead-Calcium
100 Days
Days from 100 % charged to 100 % Discharged
Current Drain
Discharging Ampere
Days form 100 % charged to 50 % Discharged
In extremely cold weather the fluid in an inadequately charged battery can easily freeze , which can crack the case and buckle the plates .
A fully charged battery can withstand sub-freezing temperatures with no damage .
Battery Sulfation
RAISE INDEX TO MID
A common cause of battery failure is sulfation .
Sulfation occurs when the battery is left in a discharged condition for an extended time .
Sulfate is a normal by product of the chemical reactions within a battery .
But when continuous discharge allows the sulfate to crystallize in the cells , the battery plates become permanently damaged and will not hold a charge .
Battery failure due to sulfation is not warrantable .
Battery Maintenance
It is the owner ' s responsibility to keep the battery fully charged .
Failure to do so can lead to battery failure and leave you stranded .
If you will not be using the motorcycle for longer than two weeks , the battery should be charged using an appropriate charger .
Do not use an automotive-type quick charger that may overcharge the battery and damage it .
CHECK PARTS NEEDED
The recommended chargers are :
1.5 Amp Automatic charger
If the above chargers are not available , use equivalent one .
You cannot use an automotive-type quick charger that may overcharge the battery as this may damage it .
For more details , ask your dealer .
Battery Charging
Remove the battery from the motorcycle ( see Battery Removal ) .
Attach the leads from the charger and charge the battery at a rate that is 1 / 10th of the battery capacity .
For example , the charging rate for a 10 Ah battery would be 1.0 ampere .
The charger will keep the battery fully charged until you are ready to reinstall the battery in the motorcycle ( see Battery Installation ) .
Min Max Gauge Rings S / No . 01 UT 1754
CHECK PART AT PUSHER
Never remove the sealing strip , or the battery can be damaged .
Do not install a conventional battery in this motorcycle , or the electrical system cannot work properly .
If you charge the sealed battery , never fail to observe the instructions shown in the label on the battery .
Battery Removal
A . ( + ) Terminal
( - ) Terminal
Disconnect the wires from the battery , first from the ( - ) terminal and then the ( + ) terminal .
Take the battery out of the case .
Clean the battery using a solution of baking soda and water .
Be sure that the wire connections are clean .
( R1 ) Part into station and probe
Battery Installation
Place the battery in the battery case .
Connect the capped wire to the ( + ) terminal , and then connect the black wire to the ( - ) terminal .
Install the battery in the reverse order of the Battery Removal .
Installing the ( - ) cable to the ( + ) terminal of the battery or the ( + ) cable to the ( - ) terminal of the battery can seriously damage the electrical system .
Put a light coat of grease on the terminals to prevent corrosion .
Cover the ( + ) terminal with its protective cap .
Headlight Beam
Horizontal Adjustment
The headlight beam is adjustable horizontally .
Starts the first part of the sequence allowing the part to enter station , raise the index and probe .
If not properly adjusted horizontally , the beam will point to one side rather than straight ahead .
Remove the left cowl in the same order as the right side .
Turn the horizontal adjuster clockwise or counterclockwise until the beam points straight ahead .
A . Horizontal Adjuster
View From Back Side
Vertical Adjustment
The headlight beam is adjustable vertically .
If adjusted too low , neither low nor high beam will illuminate the road far enough ahead .
If adjusted too high , the high beam will fail to illuminate the road close ahead , and the low beam will blind oncoming drivers .
Remove the right cowl .
Does not need to be kept pressed for this function to continue .
Turn the vertical adjuster clockwise or counterclockwise to adjust its vertical angle .
A . Vertical Adjuster
On high beam , the brightest point should be slightly below horizontal with the motorcycle on its wheels and the rider seated .
Adjust the headlight to the proper angle according to local regulations .
Fuses
Fuses are arranged in the fuse box located under the seat .
The main fuse is mounted on the starter relay behind the right side cover .
If a fuse fails during operation , inspect the electrical system to determine the cause , and then replace it with a new fuse of proper amperage .
A . Fuse Box
C . Spare Parts
Indicator block background is grey when at initial and yellow when complete with selector in semi-auto position , safety circuits and services are OK .
Remove the left side cover by removing the bolt .
A . Left Side Cover
Remove the main fuse cover by removing the bolt .
A . Main Fuse Cover
A . Main Fuse
Install the left side cover by fitting the receptacles into the holes and screwing in the bolt .
Receptacles
C . Holes
Do not use any substitute for the standard fuse .
Replace the blown fuse with a new one of the correct capacity , as specified on the junction box and main fuse .
( R2 ) Return sealant assemblies
Mix a mild neutral detergent ( designed for motorcycles or automobiles ) and water in a bucket .
Failed
Destroy the driver ' s dashboard .
Cleaning Your Motorcycle
Mount the driver ' s dashboard .
Recycle the driver ' s dashboard as it is made of plastic .
General Precautions
Frequent and proper care of your sidecar will enhance its appearance , optimize overall performance , and extend its useful life .
Covering your motorbike with a high quality , breathable motorbike cover will help protect its finish from harmful UV rays , pollutants , and reduce the amount of dust reaching its surfaces .
Returns the sealant applicators and the assembly carriages .
Be sure the engine and exhaust are cool before washing .
Be sure the engine and exhaust pipe are cool before washing .
Avoid applying degreaser to seals , brake pads , and tires .
Always use non-abrasive wax and cleaner / polisher .
Avoid all harsh chemicals , solvents , detergents , and household cleaning products such as ammonia-based window cleaners .
Gasoline , brake fluid , and coolant will damage the finish of painted and plastic surfaces : wash them off immediately .
Avoid wire brushes , steel wool , and all other abrasive pads or brushes .
Use care when washing the windshield , headlight cover , and other plastic parts as they can easily be scratched .
Avoid using pressure washers ; water can penetrate seals and electrical components and damage your motorcycle .
Avoid spraying water in delicate areas such as in air intakes , fuel system , brake components , electrical components , muffler outlets , and fuel tank openings .
Indicator block background is grey when at initial and green when complete with selector in semi-auto position , safety circuits and services are OK .
Washing Your Motorcycle
Rinse your bike with cold water from a garden hose to remove any loose dirt .
Mix a mild neutral detergent ( designed for motorcycles or automobiles ) and water in bucket .
Use a soft cloth or sponge to wash your motorcycle .
If needed , use a mild degreaser to remove any oil or grease build up .
After washing , rinse your motorcycle thoroughly with clean water to remove any residue ( residue from the detergent can damage parts of your motorcycle ) .
Use a soft cloth to dry your motorcycle .
As you dry , inspect your motorcycle for chips and scratches .
Do not let the water air dry as this can damage the painted surfaces .
Start the engine and let it idle for several minutes .
( R3 ) Apply sealant
The heat from the engine will help dry moist areas .
Carefully ride your motorcycle at a slow speed and apply the brakes several times .
This helps dry the brakes and restores them to normal operating performance .
Lubricate the drive chain to prevent rusting .
Do not use warm water as it accelerates the chemical reaction of the salt .
After drying , apply a corrosion protection spray on all metal and chrome surfaces to prevent corrosion .
Condensation may form on the inside of the headlight lens after riding in the rain or washing the motorcycle .
To remove the moisture , start the engine and turn on the headlight .
Gradually the condensation on the inside of the lens will clear off .
Advances the assembly carriages , applies sealant to the orifices that have probed OK and returns the assembly carriages .
Painted Surfaces
After washing your motorcycle , coat painted surfaces , both metal and plastic , with a commercially available motorcycle / automotive wax .
Wax should be applied once every three months or as conditions require .
Avoid surfaces with “ satin ” or “ flat ” finishes .
Always use non-abrasive products and apply them according to the instructions on the container .
Windshield and Other Plastic Parts
After washing use a soft cloth to gently dry plastic parts .
When dry , treat the windshield , headlight lens , and other non-painted plastic parts with an approved plastic cleaner / polisher product .
Plastic parts may deteriorate and break if they come in contact with chemical substances or household cleaning products such as gasoline , brake fluid , window cleaners , thread-locking agents , or other harsh chemicals .
If a plastic part comes in contact with any harsh chemical substance , wash it off immediately with water and a mild neutral detergent , and then inspect for damage .
Nominal measurement
( R4 ) Return presses and reaction units
Avoid using abrasive pads or brushes to clean plastic parts , as they will damage the part ' s finish .
Chrome and Aluminum
Chrome and uncoated aluminum parts can be treated with a chrome / aluminum polish .
Coated aluminum should be washed with a mild neutral detergent and finished with a spray polish .
Aluminum wheels , both painted and unpainted can be cleaned with special non-acid based wheel spray cleaners .
Leather , Vinyl , and Rubber
If your motorcycle has leather accessories , special care must be taken .
Use a leather cleaner / treatment to clean and care for leather accessories .
Washing leather parts with detergent and water will damage them , shortening their life .
Vinyl parts should be washed with the rest of the motorcycle , then treated with a vinyl treatment .
Returns the reaction units and the presses .
The sidewalls of tires and other rubber components should be treated with a rubber protectant to help prolong their useful life .
Special care must be taken not to get any rubber protectant on the tire ' s tread surface when treating tires .
This may decrease the tire ' s ability to maintain contact with the road surface causing the rider to lose control .
STORAGE
Preparation for Storage :
Clean the entire vehicle thoroughly .
Run the engine for about five minutes to warm the oil , shut it off , and drain the engine oil .
Preparation after Storage -
Motorcycle oil is a toxic substance .
Put in fresh engine oil .
( R5 ) Press plugs
Empty the fuel from the fuel tank by the pump or siphon .
Gasoline is a toxic substance .
On top of each front fork leg is a spring preload adjuster and on the spring preload adjuster of the right front fork leg is a rebound damping force adjuster so that the spring force and damping force can be adjusted for different riding and loading conditions .
Dispose of gasoline properly .
Contact your local authorities for approved disposal methclip .
Empty the fuel system by running the engine at idle speed until the engine stalls .
( If left in for a long time , the fuel will break down and could clog the fuel system . )
Reduce tire pressure by about 20 % .
Set the motorcycle on a box or stand so that both wheels are raised off the ground .
Advances the reaction units , presses the plugs , returns the reaction units , and lowers the index .
( If this cannot be done , put boards under the front and rear wheels to keep dampness away from the tire rubber . )
Spray oil on all unpainted metal surfaces to prevent rusting .
Avoid getting oil on rubber parts or in the brakes .
Lubricate the drive chain and all the cables .
Remove the battery , and store it where it will not be exposed to direct sunlight , moisture , or freezing temperatures .
During storage it should be given a slow charge ( one ampere or less ) about once a month .
Keep the battery well charged especially during cold weather .
Tie plastic bags over the mufflers to prevent moisture from entering .
Put a cover over the motorcycle to keep dust and dirt from collecting on it .
Preparation after Storage :
( R7 ) Release part
Remove the plastic bags from the mufflers .
Install the battery in the motorcycle and charge the battery if necessary .
Fill the fuel tank with fuel .
Check all the points listed in the Daily Safety Checks section .
Lubricate the pivots , bolts , and nuts .
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
To protect our environment , properly discard used batteries , tires , engine oil , or other vehicle components that you might dispose of in the future .
Consult your authorized dealer or local environmental waste agency for their proper disposal procedure .
LOCATION OF LABELS
Checks the load is clear , and releases the part .
Unleaded Gasoline
Brake Fluid ( Front )
Brake Fluid ( Rear )
Tire and Load Data
Important Drive Chain Information
Battery Poison / Danger
( R1 ) Run feeder
The rebound damping force adjuster is located at the lower end of the rear shock absorber .
Turn the rebound damping force adjuster towards the H mark to make the damping force greatest .
: out from the fully seated position
Turn the adjuster towards the S mark to decrease damping force .
The standard setting positions of the rebound damping force adjuster and compression damping force adjuster for an average-build rider of 68 kg with no passenger and no accessories are as follows :
Starts the feeder sequence , feeding plugs to the release units .
1 turns out *
IMPORTANT DRIVE CHAIN INFORMATION
To prevent an accident and / or damage to the motorcycle , the drive chain must be properly maintained .
It should be lubricated every 600km and adjusted as often as necessary to keep chain slack at about 25 - 35mm measured midway between sprockets on the lower chain run with the motorcycle on the side stand .
The standard chain is an Enuma EK520MVXL1 with estimated service life of 15.000 - 45.000 km , depending on the severity of use and the frequency of lubrication and adjustment .
( R6 ) Return feeder
For safety , replace the chain with only the standard chain any time it wears to over 323mm , measured over a 20-link portion pulled straight with 98N ( 10kgf ) of tension .
See the Owner ' s Manual for chain information .
This warning symbol identifies special instructions or procedures which , if not correctly followed , could result in injury or death .
( Australian model only )
THIS VEHICLE SHOULD NOT BE USED FOR GENERAL OFF-ROAD RECREATIONAL RIDING . READ OWNER ' S MANUAL .
© 2005 Kawasaki Heavy Industries , Ltd .
IMPORTANT NOTICE
THIS VEHICLE IS A COMPETITION MODEL ONLY AND WAS NOT MANUFACTURED FOR , NOR SHOULD IT BE USED ON , PUBLIC STREETS , ROADS , OR HIGHWAYS .
THE USE OF THIS VEHICLE SHOULD BE LIMITED TO PARTICIPATION IN SANCTIONED COMPETITION EVENTS UPON A CLOSED COURSE .
THIS VEHICLE SHOULD NOT BE USED FOR GENERAL OFF-ROAD RECREATIONAL RIDING .
Returns the feeder pushers .
READ OWNER ' S MANUAL .
MANUFACTURE ' S WARRANTY
This motorcycle is sold as a Competition Racing Machine and as such there is no manufacturer ' s warranty expressed or implied .
You should also be aware that any accidental damage and / or damage caused by alteration of the standard specification ( tuning or modification ) is entirely the owner ' s responsibility .
Nothing in this statement affects your statutory rights .
NOTICE
Off-road motorcycling is a wonderful sport , and we hope you will enjoy it to the fullest .
However , if improperly conducted , this sport has the potential to cause environmental problems as well as conflicts with other people . Responsible use of your off-road motorcycle will ensure that these problems and conflicts do not occur .
TO PROTECT THE FUTURE OF YOUR SPORT , ensure YOU USE YOUR MOTORCYCLE LEGALLY , SHOW CONCERN FOR THE ENVIRONMENT , AND RESPECT THE RIGHTS OF OTHER PEOPLE .
Bores 1-4
( R3 ) Start test sequence & stamp
Bore x stroke
Congratulations on your choosing this Kawasaki motorcycle .
Your new motorcycle is the product of Kawasaki ' s advanced engineering , exhaustive testing , and continuous striving for a superior lightweight , high-performance machine with superb handling and stability for racing and sporting use .
Your new KX is a highly tuned competition machine for participation in racing events .
As with any mechanical device , proper care and maintenance are important for trouble-free operation and top performance .
Nov . 2005 .
This manual is written to enable you to keep your KX properly tuned and adjusted .
Due to improvements in design and performance made during production , in some cases there may be minor discrepancies between the actual vehicle and the illustrations and text in this manual .
Initiates the leak test , and if OK , stamps the block as ok part .
Aug . 2005 .
Road clearance
Fuel tank capacity
7.2 L
Carburetor
Indicator block background is grey when at initial and yellow when test in progress with selector in semi-auto position , safety circuits and services are OK .
Starting system
Primary kick
Ignition system
Ignition timing
Lubrication system
Forced Lubrication ( semi dry sump )
( R5 ) Return station .
Spark plug terminal
Solid-post
Transmission type
5-speed , constant-mesh , return shift
Clutch type
Drive system
Gear ratios :
1st gear
5th gear
2nd gear
Start the part of the sequence which unclamps the block .
API SG , SH , SJ or SL with JASO MA
3rd gear
1.5 L
4th gear
Primary reduction ratio
Final reduction ratio
Overall ratio ( top gear )
Engine oil :
Capacity
Steering angle
Indicator block background is grey in pickup position and green when all seal clamps are returned , with selector in semi-auto position , safety circuits and services are OK .
° to either side
Rim size :
Upside-down telescopic fork
New Uni-trak ® swingarm
Note that turning off the unit cancels the ON setting .
Front suspension travel
Rear wheel travel
Front fork oil :
KAYABA 01 or equivalent
Capacity ( per fork leg ) :
Inner Damper
170 mL
Inner / Outer Tubes
350 mL
BRAKES
( R1 ) Scan label
Effective disc diameter :
Type ( Front & Rear )
Disc
Check Valve
Specifications are subject to change without notice and may not apply to every country .
Location of Parts
Engine Stop Button
Hot Starter Lever
Front Brake Fluid Reservoir
Radiator
Starts the sequence , which scans the label on the block in the load station in cross shipment mode only .
Release Shaft Lever Position and adjusting Washer Selection
Fuel Tap
Swingarm
A . MODE Button
C . Tachometer
Needle Bearing
Chain Guide
Silencer
Remove the push rod holder assembly as necessary and reinstall the clutch .
Rear Brake Fluid Reservoir
Indicator block background is grey when at initial and yellow when block scanned , safety circuits and services are OK .
Rear Shock Absorber Gas Reservoir
Uni-Trak ® Tie Rod and Rocker Arm
Kick Pedal
Engine Oil Level Inspection Window
Exhaust Pipe
To install the side stand , insert its flat end into the rear axle shaft as shown .
Rear Axle Shaft
Do not start the engine or attempt to ride the motorcycle when the side stand is installed .
Support the motorcycle with a suitable stand to perform maintenance or adjustment procedures .
The capacity of the fuel tank is 7.2 L . To open the fuel tank cap , pull out the breather hose from the hole in the steering shaft , and turn the tank cap counterclockwise .
83.0150 + - 15 micron
( R9 ) Zero all gauges
C . Breather Hose
The octane rating of a gasoline is a measure of its resistance to detonation or “ knocking . "
The breather hose has the check valve .
The check valve on the breather hose prevents fuel from flowing out .
When installing the breather hose , ensure the arrow on the valve points toward the fuel tank cap .
A . Fuel Tank Cap
Breather Hose
C . Check Valve
Always stop the engine and do not smoke .
Furthermore , warning the engine up excessively before operation , or leaving idling with the hot engine temperature after operation results in the engine overheating , too .
Initiates the sequence which performs the automatic zeroing of the transducers in the maximum masters , then returns the station .
A small amount of engine oil can collect in the crankcase breather hose passage and drip from the breather hose immediately after the engine is started .
Fuel Requirements :
Use only unleaded gasoline with an octane rating equal to or higher than that shown in the table .
Octane Rating Method
Minimum Rating
Research Octane Number ( RON )
If “ knocking ” or “ pinging ” occurs , try a different brand of gasoline or higher octane grade .
This motorcycle is equipped with a primary kick starting system .
When the clutch lever is pulled , the motorcycle can be started with the transmission in any gear .
A . Kick Pedal
Indicator block background is grey before sequence starts and green when complete with selector in semi-auto position , safety circuits and services are OK .
ON Position
C . OFF Position
This motorcycle is designed for competition use only .
Therefore , the radiator does not incorporate a coolant reserve tank or cooling fan .
Prolonged idling of the engine with no airflow through the radiator can cause coolant loss and engine overheating resulting in possible engine damage .
Any riding conditions that increase engine temperature will further reduce idling time before coolant loss occurs .
These conditions include high ambient temperature , sandy or muddy terrain , or other conditions causing high engine loads at low speeds .
Furthermore , warming the engine up excessively before operation , or leaving idling with the hot engine temperature after operation results in the engine overheating , too .
Remove the seat and left and right covers .
Loosen the air cleaner duct clamp screw and the cylinder intake duct clamp screw at the carburetor .
Plant of origin screen
Remove the silencer ( see the “ Exhaust System " section ) .
Do not repeatedly operate the throttle with the engine starting , stopping and idling .
The accelerator pump may foul the spark plugs with excess fuel .
Excessive oil from the hose could be an indication the oil level is too high ( see p . 32 )
When engine is cold-
Pull out the choke knob .
A . Choke Knob
Find the kick pedal position around the top so that the resistance to depress the kick pedal is fully felt by pushing down the kick pedal slowly .
Kick the engine over , leaving the throttle closed .
Even after the engine has started , do not push back immediately the choke knob until the engine is thoroughly warmed up .
Selects the screen for plant of origin for cross shipment block .
When engine is already warm or restarts-
Pull the hot starter lever on the clutch lever .
A . Hot Starter Lever
Kick the engine over , leaving the throttle closed without using the choke knob .
Adjust the throttle cable play and idling speed .
Return the hot starter lever back immediately after the engine starts .
If the engine fails starting , open the throttle fully and depress the kick pedal slowly about 4 - 5 times to clear too rich fuel mixtures in the engine .
Then , kick the engine over , leaving the throttle closed with the hot starter lever pulled in .
Hot starter lever or choke knob is used as following table
Engine
May be selected at any time , but will only change plant of origin when machine is run-out .
This motorcycle is equipped with a 5-speed " return shift " transmission .
Hot Starter
Choke Knob
Condition
Cable Bracket
Lever
Already
( see the “ Engine Oil " section ) .
Pull in ( ON )
Push back ( OFF )
( R1 ) CHECK PART TYPE IN STATION :
Warm
Connect the fuel hose to the fuel tap .
after falling
Cold
After racing , first clean the motorcycle ( see p . 128 ) , then inspect the entire motorcycle with special attention to the air cleaner , carburetor , brakes , etc .
No use ( OFF )
Use ( ON )
“ Return shift " means that when shifting up or down , each gear must be engaged before the next higher or lower gear may be selected .
This motorcycle is equipped with a 4-speed “ return shift ” transmission .
The neutral is located halfway between 1st and 2nd gear .
displays a message to indicate that the part type is correct or jumps the manual pages to allow the part to be released .
“ Return shift ” means that when shifting up or down , each gear must be engaged before the next higher or lower gear may be selected .
To engage first gear from the neutral position , pull in the clutch lever and push down on the shift pedal , gently release the clutch lever , then release the shift pedal .
To shift up to the next gear , pull in the clutch lever , lift the shift pedal with your toes , gently release the clutch lever , and then release the shift pedal .
To shift down to the next gear , pull in the clutch lever , push the shift pedal down as far as it will go , gently release the clutch lever , then release the shift pedal .
When changing gears , press firmly on the shift pedal to ensure proper shifting .
Careless , incomplete shifting can cause the transmission to jump out of gear and lead to engine damage .
Stopping the Motorcycle
For maximum deceleration , close the throttle and apply both front and rear brakes .
Pull in the clutch lever as the motorcycle comes to a stop .
Independent use of the front or rear brake may be advantageous in certain circumstances .
Indicator block background is grey .
Shift down progressively to ensure good engine response at all speeds .
Shift the transmission into the neutral position .
Close the throttle completely and push the engine stop button .
1.10 L
A . Engine Stop Button
Turn the fuel tap lever to the OFF position .
Break-In
A brief break-in procedure must be carried out to obtain the proper operating clearances in the engine and transmission , which are necessary for performance and reliability .
For the first hour or 20 km of operation , run the engine at low and moderate engine speeds .
1.50 L
( R3 ) RAISE INDEX TO TOP :
See details below .
Break in the engine as follows .
Start the engine and let it idle until it is thoroughly warmed up .
Ride the motorcycle for about 20 minutes within 1 / 2 throttle opening .
* Brake hoses and pipe - replace †
Stop and let the engine cool completely .
Be sure to check the tightness of nuts and bolts , oil leakage , and any irregularities .
* Brake caliper piston seal and dust seal - replace †
Start the engine and ride the motorcycle for about 40 minutes within 3 / 4 throttle opening .
Be sure to fully check the tightness of nuts and bolts , oil leakage , and any irregularities , especially , each cable elongation , brake play , chain slack and spoke tightness .
Right hand side pusher cylinder
raises the index to top position to allow the part to be worked .
Change the engine oil , oil filter and front fork / rear shock absorber oil to the new one .
* Brake master cylinder cup and dust seal - replace †
After the break-in procedure has been properly carried out , the motorcycle is ready for regular operation .
Using the proper riding skills and techniques and avoiding recklessly high engine speeds will keep the engine trouble-free .
When any following parts have been replaced , the same break-in procedure as the new motorcycle must be carried out for one hour or 20 km :
Cylinder , Piston , Piston pin , Piston ring , Valve , Valve lifter , Camshaft , Crankshaft , Mission gear , etc .
Daily Pre-Ride Checks
The time required is minimal , and habitual performance of these checks will help ensure a safe , reliable ride .
If any irregularities are found during these checks , refer to the appropriate section and take the action required to return the motorcycle to a safe operating condition .
* Brake fluid - replace †
Indicator block background is grey when lowered and yellow when raised .
No leakage
Level correct
All lights ( Head , Tail / Brake , Turn Signal , Warning / Indicator ) and horn work .
Return to its fully up position by spring tension .
A . Oil Drain Plug ( Front )
Level correct ( engine cold )
Radiator Cap
Radiator Caps
Properly installed
Correctly screwed
Status :
Correctly torqued
with a single cylinder Head Cover
Cylinder Head Cover
Properly tuned
Clean
* Rear shock absorber oil - replace
Apply oil to air cleaner element
No damage
Engine Sprocket
No wear or damage
part in station , presses and sealant applicators at initial .
Frame
* Fuel hose - replace †
Pressure correct
Air valve cap installed
Spokes
* Piston pin - replace
No looseness
Chain slack correct
Oil if necessary
Front and Rear Brakes
( R4 ) LOWER INDEX TO MID :
Function properly
Lever and pedal play correct
No fluid leakage
Throttle grip returns smoothly
Smooth but not loose from lock to lock
No binding due to control cables
Carry out the general lubrication ( see p . 130 ) and make necessary adjustments .
Cylinder , cylinder head - inspect
No oil leakage
Mounted securely
lowers the index to mid position .
No fuel leakage
Rear Sprocket
Nuts , Bolts , Fasteners
Properly tightened
After-Race Checks
The maintenance and adjustments outlined in this chapter are easily carried out and must be done in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart to keep the motorcycle in good running condition .
Periodic Inspection ( Engine Related Item )
FREQUENCY
Drive chain - Lubricate †
After each race ( or 2.5 hour )
Indicator block background is grey when raised and green when lowered .
Every 3 races ( or 7.5 hour )
As required
See Page
OPERATION
* Crankshaft - inspect
Hot starter cable - adjust
Throttle cable - adjust
Clutch friction / steel plates - inspect †
Spark plug - clean , regap †
Clutch - adjust
presses and sealant applicators at initial .
Air cleaner element - clean †
Carburetor - inspect and adjust
Crankshaft - inspect
Silencer - clean and inspect †
Kick pedal and shift pedal - clean
Engine sprocket - inspect †
Coolant - inspect †
Breather hose - inspect
Radiator hoses and connection - inspect †
Periodic Inspection ( Chassis Related Item )
( R5 ) ADVANCE LH PRESS TO PROBE :
Brake adjustment - inspect †
Brake pad wear - inspect †
Brake fluid level - inspect †
Spoke tightness and rim runout - inspect †
Drive chain - adjust †
Drive chain - lubricate †
Drive chain wear - inspect †
* Swingarm and UNI-TRAK linkage pivots - inspect
* Swingarm and UNI-TRAK linkage pivots - grease
* Piston and piston ring - replace †
advances the left hand press to the probe position .
Front fork - inspect and clean
* Fuel system - clean
* Steering stem bearing - grease
Nuts , bolts , fasteners - inspect †
Fuel system - clean
Fuel hoses , connections - inspect †
Brake hoses , connections - inspect †
* Wheel bearing - inspect †
Steering play - inspect †
Steering stem bearing-grease
Left hand side pusher cylinder
Indicator block background is grey when returned and yellow when advanced .
Rear sprocket - inspect †
General lubrication-perform
Wheel bearing - inspect
Swingarm and UNI-TRAK linkage pivots - inspect
Swingarm and UNI-TRAK linkage pivots - grease
Frame - clean and check
Wheel / tire ( air pressure , excessive wear or damage ) - inspect
Rear shock absorber - inspect
Cable - inspect
Periodic Replacement ( Engine and Chassis Related Item )
index raised , assembly carriage returned .
Engine oil - replace
Oil filter-replace
Spark plug - replace
Piston and piston ring - replace
Every 6 races
Piston pin - replace
Silencer packing - replace
Brake fluid - replace
Every 2 years
( R7 ) ADVANCE RH PRESS TO PROBE :
Brake master cylinder cup and dust seal - replace
Brake caliper piston seal and dust seal - replace
Brake hoses and pipe - replace
Front fork oil - replace
Fuel hose - replace
Rear shock absorber oil - replace
Replace , add , adjust , clean or torque if necessary .
Should be serviced by referring to the Service Manual or an authorized dealer .
Headlights or any attaching hardware should not be touched immediately after they have been turned off .
Replace
advances the right hand press to the probe position .
In order for the engine , transmission and clutch to function properly , maintain the engine oil at the proper level , and change the oil and oil filter periodically .
C . Upper Level Line
Because of the semi-dry sump lubrication system , the engine oil level indicated on the oil level inspection window will fluctuate depending on the motorcycle ' s position and engine speed when the engine ' s shut off .
Drain Plug ( Front )
To ensure a proper reading of the engine oil level , follow the Oil Level Inspection procedures closely .
If the oil has just been changed , let the motorcycle sit a few minutes allowing the oil to settle .
Install the oil filter cover with a new O-ring and tighten its bolts to the specified torque .
Start the engine and run it for several minutes at idle speed .
Do not run the engine at high engine speed .
( R9 ) RETURN LH PRESS TO MID :
If no oil appears in the oil level inspection window , tip the motorcycle slightly to the right until oil is visible then return to an upright position .
If no oil appears even when tipped at an extreme angle , remove drain plugs to empty any oil that may be in the transmission and crankcase , reinstall the drain plugs and refill with the specified amount of oil .
Stop the engine and wait several minutes for the oil to settle .
Check the engine oil level with the motorcycle vertical through the oil level inspection window on the lower right side of the engine .
The oil level should come up between the high and low level lines next to the window .
If the oil level is too high , remove the excess oil using a syringe or other suitable device .
If the oil level is too low , add the correct amount of oil through the oil filler opening .
Use oil of the same type and brand as those of the one that is already in the engine .
A . Oil Level Inspection Window
Oil Drain Plug ( M10 )
returns the left hand press to the probe position .
C . Oil Drain Plug ( Oil Filter Cover )
High Level Line
C . Low Level Line
The engine oil and / or oil filter should be changed periodically to ensure long engine life .
Warm up the engine thoroughly so that the oil will pick up any sediment and drain easily .
Stop the engine , and place a container beneath it .
Remove the oil filler cap .
Remove the oil drain plugs and position the vehicle perpendicular to the ground to allow all the oil to drain .
A . Drain Plug ( M6 )
Drain Plug ( M10 )
Indicator block background is grey when advanced and green when returned .
If the oil filter is to be replaced , remove the oil filter cartridge and replace it with a new one .
D . Oil Filter Cover
A . Oil Filter Cover
When the oil filter is replaced , remove the oil filter cover and take off the cover with O-ring .
Apply a little engine oil to the grommet .
Install the oil filter element with the grommet toward the engine .
Replace the oil filter element with a new one .
A . Oil Filter Element
Grommet
Apply the grease oil to the grommet .
( R1 ) RETURN RH PRESS TO MID :
Install the oil filter element with the grommet toward the oil filter cover .
Inside-Out installation stop oil flow , causing engine seizure .
Install the oil filter cover with the grease applied to a new O-ring and tighten its bolts to the specified torque .
Oil Filter Cover
After the oil has completely drained out , install the drain plugs with their new gaskets .
Proper torque for them is shown in the table .
Engine Oil Drain Plugs Tightening Torque
Drain Plug ( M6 )
Replace any gaskets or O-ring with their new ones .
Fill the engine up to the high level line with good quality engine oil specified in the table .
returns the right hand press to the probe position .
1.35 L
Install the oil filler cap .
Check the oil level and oil leakage .
Castrol “ R4 Superbike ” SAE5W-40
0.96 L
[ When filter is not removed ]
0.98 L
[ When filter is removed ]
1.20 L
[ When engine is completely dry ]
( R3 ) CHECK LH PLUGS PRESENT :
If unavailable , use equivalent engine oil in accordance with the following table .
The oil viscosity may need to be changed to accommodate atmospheric conditions in your riding area .
Cooling Hoses
Check the cooling hoses for cracks or deterioration , and the connections for looseness in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Check the radiator hoses for leakage , cracks or deterioration , and connections for leakage , or looseness each day before riding the motorcycle , and in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Clean off any obstructions with a low-pressure stream of water .
Do not obstruct or deflect airflow by installing unauthorized accessories in front of the radiator .
Interference with the cooling airflow can lead to overheating and consequent engine damage .
Coolant absorbs excessive heat from the engine and transfers it to the air through the radiator .
Check the coolant level each day before riding the motorcycle , and replenish coolant if the level is low .
Final Torque
L / H reaction unit lock cylinder .
displays a message to indicate that the plug is fitted or not .
To avoid burns , do not remove the radiator cap or change the coolant when the engine is still hot .
Wait until the engine cools down .
The coolant originally filled into the cooling system contains 50 % of a permanent , ethylene-glycol-based antifreeze , has a freezing point of -35 ° C and a green appearance .
Remove the right shroud .
Situate the motorcycle perpendicular to the ground until the radiator cap is level to the ground , so that the radiator cap is located uppermost in order to exhaust the air accumulated in the radiator .
Remove the radiator cap in two steps .
First , turn the cap counterclockwise to the first stop and wait there for a few seconds .
Then , push and turn the cap further in the same direction and remove it .
A . Radiator Cap
Check the coolant level in the radiator .
Indicator block background is grey
The coolant should come up to the bottom of the radiator filler neck .
Check the coolant level when the engine is cold ( room or ambient temperature ) .
A Coolant Level
Filler Neck
If the coolant level is low , add coolant through the radiator filler opening to the bottom of the filler neck .
Water and Antifreeze Mixing Ratio
1 : 1 ( water : antifreeze )
Recommended Antifreeze
Permanent type of antifreeze ( ethylene glycol base plus corrosion and rust inhibitors for aluminum engines and radiators )
Remove the radiator cap in two steps ( see the Coolant level inspection " section ) .
( R5 ) CHECK RH PLUGS PRESENT :
Coolant Total Amount
1.05 L
Install the radiator cap .
The coolant should be changed to ensure long engine life , if necessary .
Wait for the engine to cool completely .
Remove the guard .
A . Guard
Remove the radiator cap in two steps ( see the “ Coolant level inspection ” section ) .
Drain the coolant from the engine and radiator in the following way .
Place a container under the coolant drain plug on the water pump cover and remove the drain plug .
( R8 ) ADVANCE LH CARRIAGE ASSEMBLY :
A . Coolant Drain Plug
Water Pump Cover
Immediately wash away any coolant that spills on the frame , engine , or wheel .
Wash off any coolant that might have splashed on the tires , since the presence of coolant on them makes them slippery and could cause an accident and injury .
Visually inspect the old coolant .
If whitish cotton-like wafts are observed , aluminum parts in the cooling system are corroded and the system must be flushed .
If the coolant is brown , iron or steel parts are rusting and the system must be flushed .
Check the cooling system for damage , loose connections , and leaks .
Install the coolant drain plug with its new gasket at the water pump cover and apply the specified torques .
Always replace any gasket with a new one .
sdvances the left hand carriage assembly .
Lean the motorcycle slightly to the right until the radiator filler neck is level to the ground so that the filler neck is located uppermost in order to exhaust the air accumulated in the radiator .
Coolant Drain Plug Tightening Torque
Fill the radiator up to the bottom of the radiator filler neck with coolant .
Situate the motorcycle perpendicular to the ground until the radiator filler neck is level to the ground so that the filler neck is located uppermost in order to exhaust the air accumulated in the radiator .
Use coolant containing corrosion inhibitors made specifically for aluminum engines and radiators in accordance with the instruction of the manufacture .
E . Mounting Bolt
Soft or distilled water must be used with the antifreeze in the cooling system .
Follow manufacture ' s instructions on the container to prepare a suitable mixture ratio for expected weather conditions where the motorcycle will be operated .
Duct Groove
index raised , presses and sealant assemblies returned .
Pour in the coolant slowly so that it can expel the air from the engine and radiator .
Check the cooling system for leaks .
Start the engine and warm up thoroughly , then stop it .
Check the coolant level after the engine has cooled down .
If the coolant level is low , add coolant up to the bottom of the radiator filler neck .
The spark plug should be taken out periodically for inspection and regapping .
Measure the gap with a wire-type thickness gauge .
If incorrect , adjust the gap to the specified value by bending the outer electrode .
Spark Plug Gap
( R8 ) RETURN LH CARRIAGE ASSEMBLY :
A . Gap
Outer Electrode
If the plug is oily or has carbon built up on it , clean it ( preferably with a sandblaster ) and then clean off any abrasive particles .
The plug may also be cleaned using a high-flash-point solvent and a wire brush or other suitable tool .
If the spark plug electrodes are corroded , or damaged , or if the insulator is cracked , replace the plug .
The standard spark plug is shown in the table below .
Standard Spark Plug
To find out whether the plug ' s heat range is correct , remove the plug and examine the ceramic insulator around the center electrode .
returns the left hand carriage assembly .
If the ceramic is light brown , the spark plug correctly matches the engine temperature .
If the ceramic is burned white , the plug should be replaced with a colder plug .
Optional Spark Plug
Colder
If the engine performance drops , try replacing the spark plug to regain performance .
If the spark plug is replaced , use the genuine Kawasaki spark plug .
Spark Plug Removal and Installation
Clean the cylinder head cover around the spark plug cap hole before removing the spark plug .
Pull the spark plug cap off the plug before removing the spark plug .
( R9 ) ADVANCE RH CARRIAGE ASSEMBLY :
Apply a suitable wrench to the spark plug .
Loosen and remove the spark plug .
When reinstalling the spark plug , torque it to specification .
Spark Plug Tightening Torque
Fit the plug cap securely onto the spark plug , and pull the cap lightly to ensure that it is properly installed .
Check the spark plug lead is not damaged , or correctly routed .
A clogged air cleaner restricts the air intake , increases fuel consumption , reduces engine power , and can cause spark plug fouling .
Inspect the air intake system , which includes the air filter and air duct to the carburetor , and the duct clamps and carburetor , before each race or practice session .
Any dirt entry into the engine can cause engine damage or engine failure .
Engine failure could lead to an accident and injury .
advances the right hand carriage assembly .
Regularly inspect the air intake system for dirt entry .
Remove the air cleaner joint clamp by raising the rear portion of the frame a little .
If any dirt is found in the system , the entire system must be cleaned .
A clogged air cleaner will affect fuel mixture to the engine and reduce engine power and cause spark plug fouling .
In dusty areas , the element should be cleaned more frequently than recommended interval .
After riding through rain or on muddy roads , the element should be cleaned immediately .
Element Removal and Inspection
Seat Bolt
Remove the wing bolt , and take out the air cleaner element .
A . Air Cleaner Element
R / H reaction unit lock cylinder .
( R10 ) RETURN RH CARRIAGE ASSEMBLY :
Wing Bolt
Check inside of the inlet tract and carburetor for dirt .
If dirty , clean the intake tract and carburetor thoroughly .
Stuff a clean , lint-free towel into the carburetor to keep dirt from entering the carburetor .
Wipe out the inside of the air cleaner housing with a clean , damp towel .
Take the element off its frame .
Hot Starter Cable
Connect the throttle sensor connector and hot starter cable .
Do not twist or wring the element , as it gets easily torn or damaged .
Inspect the element .
If the Combined ABS indicator lights or flashes and remains on while riding , stop the motorcycle in a safe place and turn off the engine .
If it is dirty , clean it .
Also check if the element is in good condition ( no tears , hardening or shrinkage ) .
If damaged , replace the element or it will allow dirt into the carburetor .
A clogged air cleaner may allow dirt and dust to enter the carburetor and jam the throttle , which could cause an accident and injury .
A clogged air cleaner may allow dirt and dust to enter the engine , causing it to wear excessively or to become damaged .
Element Frame
Element Cleaning and Installation
F . Locknut
Disconnect the throttle sensor connector and hot starter cable .
Clean the element in a bath of a high flash point solvent or hot soapy water .
Turn the ignition ON again .
Rinse the element with clear water to remove all traces of the cleaning solution .
Squeeze the element dry in a clean towel .
A . Cable Holder Cover
Remove the lower ends of the throttle cables from the carburetor pulley by loosing the throttle cable mounting bolt .
Do not twist , wring or blow the element dry to avoid damaging it .
Clean the element in a well-ventilated area , and ensure that there are no sparks or flames anywhere near the working area ; this includes any appliance with a pilot light .
To avoid a fire or explosion , do not use gasoline or a low-flash-point solvent to clean the element .
After cleaning , let the filter dry completely .
Saturate the element with a high-quality foam air filter oil and ensure that the oil is evenly applied throughout the element .
Squeeze out the excess oil , but do not wring the element as this could cause tearing .
The indicator should come on , and go off after you ride the motorcycle at a speeds above 10 km / h ( 6 mph ) . If it does not go off , Combined ABS is not functioning , but the brakes still provide normal stopping ability like a conventional braking system .
In this case , too much oil is better than too little .
Finally pat the inside of the element with a paper towel to remove any excess oil .
First turn the pilot screw with the pilot screw adjuster D ( special tool ) in until it is lightly seated , then back it out 2-1 / 8 turns .
Pilot Screw Adjuster D ( 57001-1588 )
When removing the pilot screw adjuster D from the carburetor , move the carburetor up lightly by using a suitable tool .
Turn the idling adjusting screw to adjust the idling speed 1,750 - 1,850 r / min ( rpm ) by using the engine revolution tester ( The tester should be followed by the method described by the manufacture ) .
Before installation , check the element for damage such as tears , hardening , or shrinkage .
If damaged , replace the element .
Pull the air cleaner duct clamp to the air cleaner housing side , and disconnect the carburetor from the air cleaner duct .
After removing the carburetor , push a clean , lint-free towel into the carburetor inlet and outlet to keep dirt or other foreign material from entering .
The ABS motor fuses should be inspected by the dealer , unless the owner has proper tools and service data and is mechanically qualified .
Apply grease to all mating surfaces and to the screw hole in the air cleaner housing and intake tract .
Remove the towel from the carburetor .
Install the element onto its frame , and coat the element lip and lip seat with a thick layer of all-purpose grease to assure a complete seal .
A . Apply Grease .
Install the air cleaner element so that its tab faces upward and its projections align with the holes in the housing .
A . Tab
Idling adjustment is carried out using the pilot screw and the idling adjusting screw .
Projections
Install the seat .
Throttle Cable
Front damper center hole 80
Throttle Cable Adjustment
Inspect the throttle grip for smooth operation in all steering positions .
Check and adjust the throttle cable in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Check that the throttle grip has 2 - 3 mm of play and turns smoothly .
If the play is incorrect , loosen the locknut on the upper end of the throttle cable and turn the adjuster to obtain the specified play .
Then , tighten the locknut toward the adjuster .
With the engine idling , turn the handlebar both ways and check if handlebar movement changes the idling speed .
If so , the throttle cable may be improperly adjusted or incorrectly routed , or damaged .
Operation with an improperly adjusted , incorrectly routed , or damaged cable could result in an unsafe riding condition .
For engine side mount 13
Idling Adjustment
Idling adjustment is carried out using the air screw and the idling adjusting screw .
First turn the air screw with the pilot screw adjuster ( special tool ) and adapter ( special tool ) in until it is lightly seated , then back it out 1 turn .
Do not force the pilot screw beyond the fully seated position , or the adjusting mechanism may be damaged .
A . Pilot Screw
Pilot Screw Adjuster ( P . N . 57001-1292 )
C . Adapter ( P . N . 57001-1371 )
Thoroughly warm up the engine .
A . Idling Adjusting Screw
Tester
The Combined ABS indicator may flash if :
Turn the fuel tap lever to the OFF position , and disconnect the fuel hose from the fuel tap .
Open and close the throttle a few times to ensure the idling speed does not change , and readjust if necessary .
If so , the throttle cable may be improperly adjusted , incorrectly routed , or damaged .
Remove the rear frame bolt ( lower side ) .
Operation with a damaged throttle cable could result in an unsafe riding condition .
Carburetor Removal
ensure the area is well-ventilated and free from any source of flame or sparks ; this includes any appliance with a pilot light .
Remove the seat , left and right side covers .
Remove the bolt of the fuel tap mounting bolt .
Disconnect the fuel hose from the fuel tap .
The front wheel leaves the ground for 1 second or more .
A . Fuel Tap Mounting Bolt
C . Fuel Hose
Remove the fuel tank mounting bolts , left and right shroud bolt .
Unhook the rubber band , and then remove the fuel tank with left and right shroud .
A . Fuel Tank
Shroud
C . Bolt
D . Rubber Band
Remove the silencer ( see the “ Exhaust System ” section ) .
Loosen the rear frame bolt ( upper side ) .
Either brake is applied continuously from 0 km / h ( 0 mph ) to 50 km / h ( 31 mph ) .
A . Bolt ( Loosen )
Bolt ( Remove )
Loosen the air cleaner duct clamp screw at the carburetor and remove the air cleaner duct clamp by raising the rear portion of the frame a little .
A . Carburetor
Clamp
C . Screw
If the clamp is not removed from the air cleaner housing , the rear shock absorber spring may be damaged .
Raise the rear portion of the frame more .
Loosen the cylinder intake duct clamp screw at the carburetor .
R / H cup plug press H / P
You turn the rear wheel while the motorcycle is uplight on the stand .
Pull out the carburetor from the cylinder intake duct .
Drain the fuel from the float bowl by removing the drain plug .
After draining , install the drain plug securely .
A . Float Bowl
Drain Plug
Remove the cable holder cover by removing the bolt .
A . Bolt
Chain Cover
Radiator Cover
Cable Holder Cover
For propeller shaft mount 12
Remove the lower ends of the throttle cables from the carburetor pulley by loosing the throttle cable adjusters .
A . Throttle Cable Lower Ends
Carburetor Pulley
C . Accelerator Cable
D . Decelerator Cable
E . Adjuster
Disconnect the throttle sensor connector .
A . Throttle Sensor Connector
Disconnect the hot starter cable .
A . Hot Starter Cable
Side frame gusset locating hole 28
After removing the carburetor , push a clean , lint free towel into the carburetor inlet and outlet to keep dirt or other foreign material from entering .
If dirt or dust is allowed to pass through into the carburetor , the throttle may become stuck , possibly causing an accident .
If dirt gets through into the engine , excessive engine wear and possibly engine damage will occur .
When installing the carburetor into the air cleaner duct and cylinder intake duct , align the projection of the carburetor with groove in the cylinder intake duct .
Carburetor Installation
Connect the hot starter cable .
Connect the throttle sensor connector .
Lubricate the lower ends of the throttle cables .
Install the throttle cables and cover .
Align the tab of the air cleaner duct clamp with the groove in the air intake duct .
This is normal but the Combined ABS is not in operation .
A . Carburetor Projection
Cable Holder Cover Tightening Torque
Install the air cleaner duct clamp to the air cleaner duct while bringing down the rear frame a little .
ensure the tab of the air cleaner duct clamp is aligned with the groove in the air intake duct .
Be sure not to damage the rear shock absorber spring by the air cleaner duct clamp when bringing down the rear frame .
Groove
C . Air Cleaner Duct ( View from Rear Side )
D . Frame
E . Air Cleaner Case
Install the carburetor to the air cleaner duct and the cylinder intake duct while bringing down the rear frame firmly .
To activate the system again , turn the ignition OFF , then ON again .
Check the each duct is installed securely , and the projection of the carburetor is aligned with the groove in the cylinder intake duct .
A . Duct Groove
Tighten the clamp screws securely .
Tighten the rear frame bolt ( upper and lower sides ) to the specified torque .
Rear Frame Bolt Tightening Torque
Route the carburetor air vent and overflow hoses properly .
Install the fuel tank , and connect the fuel hose to the fuel tap .
Turn the fuel tap lever to the ON position , and check for fuel leakage from the carburetor .
Open and close the throttle a few times to ensure the grip operates correctly .
Check the throttle cable play and idling adjustment .
For front subframe mount 15 rearward
Clutch Lever Adjustment
Proper clutch lever play is 8 - 13 mm . Lever play increases with cable stretch and friction plate wear , requiring periodic adjustment .
When the clutch lever play is out of specification , first try adjusting it at the clutch lever as follows .
Turn the adjuster to obtain the proper amount of clutch lever play .
If the clutch lever play cannot be adjusted at the clutch lever , make the adjustment further down the cable as follows .
Turn the adjuster in all the way .
Loosen the locknut in the middle of the clutch cable , and turn the adjusting nut so that the clutch lever play is 8 - 13 mm .
Remove the clutch spring bolts , clutch pressure plate and springs .
A . Adjusting Nut
For front subframe mount 15 forward
Friction Plate Removal
Drain the engine oil .
( see the “ Engine Oil ” section ) .
Remove the brake pedal pivot bolt and the rear brake master cylinder mounting bolts .
Remove the rear brake pedal return spring .
A . Brake Pedal Pivot Bolt
Rear Brake Master Cylinder Mounting Bolts
C . Rear Brake Master Cylinder
D . Brake Pedal
E . Return Spring
Step on the pedal
Remove the clutch cover mounting bolts .
A . Bolts
Quick Rivets
Release Shaft Lever
Clutch Cover
Remove the clutch cover and gasket .
Measure the thickness of the friction and steel plates with vernier calipers .
Steel Plate Thickness Measurement
Remove the clutch spring bolts , clutch pressure plate and springs while pressing the push rod holder .
A . Clutch Spring Bolts
The ABS motor fuses ( ) are located on the left starter magnetic switch .
Clutch Pressure Plate
C . Push Rod Holder
Remove the friction and steel plates .
Maximum 0.2 mm
Install the push rod holder together with the steel ball into the push rod .
Remove the clutch hub nut with using the clutch holder ( special tool ) to prevent the clutch hub from rotating .
Remove the clutch hub .
A . Clutch Hub
Clutch Hub Nut
C . Clutch Holder ( P . N . 57001-1243 )
For bumper beam mount 11
D . Clutch Housing
Friction and Steel Plate Wear / Damage Inspection
Visually inspect the friction and steel plates to see if they show any signs of seizure , or uneven wear .
If any plates show signs of damage , replace all friction plates and steel plates as a set .
Measure the thickness of the friction plates with vernier calipers .
If they have worn past the service limit , replace them with new ones .
Friction Plate Thickness Measurement
If the steel plates are replaced , measure the clutch plate assembly length , and use the steel plates in the following table so that the clutch plate assembly length is standard .
When measuring the clutch plate assembly length , assemble the clutch plate assembly ( clutch hub , friction plates , steel plates , clutch pressure plate , clutch spring bolts , springs ) .
Clutch Spring Bolt Tightening Torque
R / H cup plug press L / P
For spare tire hoist mount 9 rearward
Friction Plates
C . Steel Plates
D . Clutch Pressure Plate
E . Clutch Spring Bolt
F . Spring
G . Standard Length
Standard Clutch Plate Assembly Measurement
Steel Plate ( P . N . )
Thickness
36.7 mm - 44.5 mm
The specified amber fuses are :
13089-1095 ( Standard )
Do not use the steel plate of 2.0 mm and 1.2 mm thickness simultaneously .
A . Thickness
Friction Plate
Friction and Steel Plate Warp Inspection
Place each friction plate and steel plate on a surface plate , and measure the amount of friction plate and steel plate warp with a thickness gauge ( i . e . , the gap between the surface plate and each friction plate or steel plate ) .
If any plate is warped over the service limit , replace it with a new one .
Friction and Steel Plate Warp
Steel Plate
A . Surface Plate
For spare tire hoist mount 9 forward
Friction or Steel Plate
C . Thickness Gauge
Clutch Hub Installation
Install all parts in the reverse order of removal .
Install the clutch hub .
Install the spacer while “ OUTSIDE ” is faced to the nut .
A . Spacer
Tighten the clutch hub nut with using the clutch holder ( special tool ) to the specified torque .
Clutch Hub Nut Tightening Torque
The return valve will open upon receiving the transmitter ' s OK signal .
Friction and Steel Plate Installation
A . Molybdenum Disulfide Grease
D . Steel Ball
Install the friction plates and steel plates , alternating between the two ; be sure to start and finish with a friction plate .
A . Friction and Steel Plates
The friction lining intervals on the first and last friction plate surfaces is different from one of the other friction plate surfaces as shown in the figure .
A . First and Last Friction Plates
Other Friction Plates
C . Friction Lining
If dry steel plates and friction plates are installed , apply engine oil to the surfaces of each plate to avoid clutch plate seizure .
This indicator normally comes on when the ignition switch is turned ON , and goes off after you ride the motorcycle at speed above 10 km / h ( 6 mph ) . If there is a problem with the Combined ABS , this indicator lights or flashes and remains on ( page ) .
Apply molybdenum disulfide grease to the contact area of the push rod holder .
Install the push rod holder .
A . Apply Molybdenum Disulfide Grease .
Push Rod Holder
C . Push Rod
Install the clutch pressure plate and springs .
Tighten the clutch spring bolts to the specified torque .
Check the release shaft lever position by measuring the position distance between the lever and the cable bracket while pushing the release shaft lever lightly forward .
A . Release Shaft Lever
Push forward
Lower arm stopper bracket locating hole 11
C . Position Distance
D . Cable Bracket
E . Generator Cover
If the lever position is not within the standard , select the correct thickness of adjusting washer according to the following table .
Push Rod Holder Assembly
Remove the push rod holder as necessary and reinstall the clutch .
A . Adjusting Washer
C . Needle Bearing
Adjusting Washer
Part Number
Combined ABS indicator ( black )
Release Shaft Lever Position and Adjusting Washer Selection
Position Distance
Judgment
Washers Thickness
Quantity
More than 36.7 mm
Too big
Less than 68.6 mm
Too small
Place a new clutch cover gasket in position with a thin layer of grease and tighten the bolts .
' ' - - ' ' is displayed .
When installing the brake pedal , apply the grease to the contact area of the brake pedal pivot .
Install the parts removed .
Check the engine oil level .
Proper hot starter lever play between the hot starter lever and holder is 0.5 - 1 mm . Lever play increases with cable stretch , and requires periodic adjustment .
Remove the fuel tank mounting bolt and left and right radiator cover mounting bolts .
Slide the clutch lever dust cover back .
Check the hot starter lever play when pulling it lightly , and if it ' s play is out of specification , adjust the lever play .
Loosen the locknut , turn the adjuster to obtain the proper hot starter lever play , then tighten the locknut .
C . Locknut
D . 0.5 - 1 mm
Actual coolant temperature is indicated .
Unhook the rubber band , and disconnect the fuel hose from the fuel tap .
Remove the fuel tank together with left and right radiator covers .
If valve clearance is left unadjusted , wear will eventually cause the valves to remain partly open , which lowers performances , burns the valves and valve seats , and may cause serious engine damage .
If the engine is hot , wait until the engine cools .
Valve clearance must be checked when the engine is cold ( room temperature ) .
Valve Clearance Inspection
Remove the seat and left and right side covers .
Remove the fuel tank ( see the “ Carburetor ” section ) .
Remove the spark plug cap , cylinder head cover bolts , and cylinder head cover .
A . Spark Plug Cap
Actual coolant temperature is indicated and flashed .
C . Cylinder Head Cover
Remove the head cover gasket .
A . Head Cover Gasket
Gasket
Remove the two caps from the generator cover .
A . Caps
Bring the piston to the Top Dead Center ( TDC ) of its compression stroke to inspect the valve clearance ( the position at the end of the compression stroke ) by aligning the top mark with the groove on the generator cover while turning the rotor bolt counterclockwise .
Bring the piston to the Top Dead Center ( TDC ) of its compression stroke to inspect the valve clearance ( the position at the end of the compression stroke ) by aligning the top mark with the groove on the generator cover while turning the balancer bolt clockwise .
A . Top Mark
Groove on Generator Cover
L / H cup plug press H / P
Oil the joints once every six months
C . Crankshaft Rotation Direction
D . Balancer Bolt Rotation Direction
At this point , the timing marks on the camshaft sprockets must be almost aligned with the cylinder head upper surface as shown in the figure .
A . Timing Mark
Camshaft Sprockets
C . Cylinder Head Upper Surface
Using the thickness gauge , measuring the clearance between each cam lobe and valve lifter , for all four valves .
Record the measured valves clearance .
A . Thickness Gauge
Standard Valve Clearance ( Between cam and valve lifter )
Tripmeter A can be displayed from 0 to 999.9 kilometers .
Exhaust
Pull off the old silencer packing , and install the new one inside the silencer cover .
Inlet
If the valve clearance is not within the specified range , adjust by an authorized dealer or a competent mechanic following the instructions in the Service Manual .
Cylinder Head Cover Installation
Apply the silicone sealant to the new cylinder head cover gasket as shown in the figure and install the new cylinder head cover gasket to the cylinder head .
A . Apply Silicone Sealant .
Cylinder Head Cover Gasket
ensure that the upper chain guide is bottomed to the cylinder head cover .
The display will remain on and flash ' ' 12 ° C ' ' .
A . Upper Chain Guide
Unless the upper chain guide is bottomed , the camshaft chain could push the cylinder head cover upward , leading to an oil leak .
Install the cylinder head cover .
Install the washer with the metal side upwards to the cylinder head cover , and tighten the bolts to the specified torque .
Cylinder Head Cover Bolt Tightening Torque
Install the two caps to the generator cover .
Install the spark plug cap and the parts removed .
Exhaust System
It also minimizes power loss .
The exhaust system is designed to reduce exhaust noise and conduct the exhaust gases away from the rider .
Tripmeter B can be displayed up to 9,999 . 9 kilometers ( miles ) .
The exhaust system is designed to reduce exhaust noise and conduct the exhaust gases away from the rider while minimizing power loss .
The exhaust system , in particular the silencer , is designed to reduce exhaust noise and conduct the exhaust gases away from the rider while minimizing power loss .
If carbon has built up inside the silencer , exhaust efficiency is reduced , causing engine performance to drop .
If the silencer is badly damaged , dented , cracked or rusted , replace it .
Replace the silencer packing if the exhaust noise becomes too loud or engine performance drops .
Silencer Packing Replacement
Remove the right side cover .
Remove the silencer bolts , and loosen the joint clamp bolt .
Install the silencer pipe into the silencer cover and tighten the silencer cover bolts to the specified torque .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the silencer pipe mounting bolts .
If Tripmeter A exceeds 999.9 kilometers ( miles ) , or if Tripmeter B exceeds 9,999 . 9 kilometers ( miles ) , it will return to 0 automatically .
To minimize any chance of the Master Link coming apart , the master link clip must be installed with the closed end of the “ U " pointing in the direction of chain rotation .
Pull out the silencer pipe from the exhaust pipe .
Remove the silencer cover bolts and pull the silencer pipe out .
A . Silencer Bolts
Silencer Cover Bolts
C . Silencer
D . Joint Clamp Bolt
Pull off the old silencer packing , and install the new one .
Apply silicone sealant around the inside of the silencer body .
When replacing the silencer packing assembly , first insert the silencer packing assembly into the silencer cover , and align the exhaust hole of the silencer end cover with the silencer packing assembly hole while turning the packing assembly .
For rear damper mount center
Then , install the silencer pipe by pushing the silencer pipe into the silencer cover with aligning the silencer pipe with the exhaust hole .
A . Silencer Packing
Silicone Sealant
C . Silencer Pipe
Install the silencer pipe into the silencer cover and tighten the silencer cover bolts to the specified torque after applying a non-permanent locking agent to the silencer cover bolts .
Silencer Cover Bolt Tightening Torque
Tighten the silencer bolts to the specified torque .
Silencer Bolts Tightening Torque
Install the right side cover .
For safety and to prevent excessive wear , the drive chain must be checked , adjusted , and lubricated before riding .
Turn the damping adjuster clockwise until it will no longer turn ( lightly seats ) .
If the chain becomes badly worn or maladjusted - either too loose or too tight - it could jump off the sprockets or break .
Hole
A . Fork Cylinder Unit
Raise the rear wheel off the ground , then rotate the rear wheel to find the place where the chain is tightest ( because it wears unevenly ) .
Push up the drive chain in the middle of the upper chain run to measure the chain slack .
Lower Front Fork Clamp Bolts
The distance between the chain and the swingarm ( at the end of the chain slipper ) should be within the standard value .
Adjust the drive chain if its slack is out of specification .
In addition to checking the slack , rotate the rear wheel to inspect the drive chain for damaged rollers , loose pins and links and the sprockets for unevenly or excessively worn and damaged teeth .
If there are any such defects , replace the drive chain and / or the sprockets .
The adjuster is set in the standard position when the adjuster is turned counterclockwise approximately 16 turns or 25 turns so that its punch mark aligns with the reference punch mark .
Remove the cotter pin from the rear axle nut .
Loosen the rear axle nut and both chain adjuster locknuts .
Insert a wood wedge between the disc brake pads .
Turn both chain adjusting bolts evenly until the drive chain slack ( measured between the chain and the swingarm ) is within the standard value .
For the rear wheel to be properly aligned , the notch of the left chain adjuster should align with the same swingarm mark that the notch of the right chain adjuster aligns with .
Adjusting Bolt
D . Marks
Measure the length between the axle holder and outer tube and record it before disassembling the fork .
E . Notch
* : Number of turns counterclockwise usable range-20 clicks or more .
This is the full hard setting .
F . Cotter pin
Misalignment of the wheel will result in abnormal wear and possibly in an unsafe riding condition .
Remove the axle , and pull out the front wheel .
Torque the axle nut to the specified torque .
Rear Axle Nut Tightening Torque
Rotate the wheel , measure the chain slack again at the tightest position , and readjust it if necessary .
Install a new cotter pin through the axle nut and axle , and spread its ends .
Remove the bolts .
Check the rear brake effect .
When riding in wet and muddy conditions , mud sticks to the chain and sprockets , resulting in an overly tight chain , which can cause it to break .
For rear subframe mount 16 rearward
To prevent this , adjust the chain slack ( measured between the chain and the swingarm ) to 62 - 68 mm .
Chain Wear Inspection
When the chain has reached its wear limit , it is no longer safe for use and should be replaced .
When the chain has stretched by 2 % of its original length , it is no longer safe for use and should be replaced .
When the chain has reached its wear limit ( i . e . , when it has stretched by 2 % of its original length ) , it is no longer safe for use and should be replaced .
Since it is impractical to measure the entire length of the chain , determine the degree of wear by measuring a 20-link section of the chain .
Tighten the chains either by using the chain adjusters or by hanging a 10 kg weight .
Release air pressure from the fork legs .
located in each front fork base valve assembly .
Release air pressure from the fork legs prior to each race through the pressure relief screw .
L / H cup plug press L / P
Never touch the engine with your hands if you are not wearing gloves .
Release air pressure from the fork legs prior to each race through the pressure relief screw located in each front fork base valve assembly .
Tighten the chain either by using the chain adjusters or by hanging a 10 kg weight .
Tighten the chain either by using the chain adjusters or by hanging a 10 kg weight on the chain .
Measure the 23-link section on a straight part of the chain from the center of the 1st pin to the center of the 23rd pin .
Measure the 22-link section on a straight part of the chain from the center of the 1st pin to the center of the 22nd pin .
Inspect both the engine and rear sprockets whenever the chain is replaced , and replace them if necessary .
When installing the chain cover , insert the projection to the hole , and tighten the bolts .
inspect both the engine and rear sprockets whenever the chain is replaced , and replace them if necessary .
Since overworn sprockets will cause a new chain to wear faster , inspect both the engine and rear sprockets whenever the chain is replaced , and replace them if necessary .
Visually inspect the upper and lower chain slippers on the car ' s swingarm and replace them if they are worn or damaged .
Of course there are several different points of view about this and one should not assume his opinion should prevail
Estimated weight
A . Brake Caliper Bolts
Tape Measure
Drive Chain 20-Link Section
Standard length
Wear limit
The drive system was designed for use with a DAIDO D . I . D 520DMA2 114-link chain .
For maximum stretch resistance and safety , a genuine part must be used for replacement .
To minimize any chance of the Master Link coming apart , the master link clip must be installed with the closed end of the “ U ” pointing in the direction of chain rotation .
A . Master Link Clip
For rear subframe mount 16 forward
Direction of Rotation
Chain Guide Wear Inspection
The fork oil level affects only the final 100 mm of fork travel .
A higher oil level will make the fork rebound more quickly .
Visually inspect the drive chain guide and replace it if excessively worn or damaged .
Chain Slipper Wear Inspection
Handlebar
Visually inspect the front end of the chain slippers on the swingarm and replace them if worn or damaged .
A . Chain Slippers
Sprocket Wear Inspection
Rear frame locating hole 23 forward
Visually inspect the sprocket teeth and replace the sprocket if its teeth are worn or damaged .
Sprocket Tooth Wear
Sprocket wear is exaggerated in the illustration .
Chain Lubrication
Lubrication of the drive chain is necessary after riding in the rain or mud , or any time the chain appears dry .
A heavy oil such as SAE90 is preferred to a lighter oil because it will stay on the chain longer and provide better lubrication .
Check that the gauge of the handlebar is out of the left and right handlebar clamps equally .
Torque the front and rear bolts of the handlebar clamps to 25 N · m ( 2.5 kgf · m ) equally .
Apply oil to the side of the rollers so that it will penetrate to the rollers and bushings .
To suit various riding positions , the handlebar can be adjusted by turning the handlebar holders around .
The Combined ABS indicator is ON .
Remove the handlebar pad .
Check the front brake for proper brake effect or brake hose damage .
Brake Lever position
Check the handlebar for bent or crack .
Remove the handlebar clamp bolts , the clamps and the handlebar .
A . Handlebar Clamp
C . Handlebar
Loosen the handlebar holder nuts , turn the handlebar holders 180 ° , and securely tighten the nuts .
A lower oil level will make the fork rebound more slowly .
A . Handlebar Holders
Floor frame extension locating hole 25
Handlebar Holder Nuts
Put the handlebar on the handlebar holders .
Mount the handlebar clamps .
Check that the gauge on the handlebar is out of the left and right handlebar clamps equally .
A . Handlebar Clamps
Clamp Bolts
C . Gap
Left Front Axle Clamp Bolts
D . Supporting Bar
Tighten the front and rear bolts of the handlebar clamps equally .
Why spend more than necessary in expensive , inefficient lubricants ?
If the handlebar clamps are correctly installed , there will be even gap on the front and rear side of the clamp after the bolts torqued .
Do not disassemble the supporting bar on the handlebar .
Handlebar Clamp Bolts Tightening Torque
Check the front brake for the proper brake effect , or no brake drag .
Tighten the two clamp bolts alternately two times to ensure even tightening torque .
After adjustment , tighten the locknut securely .
Lining Thickness
Front Fork Protector
There are no parts on the brakes that require adjustment except brake lever position .
Brake Lever Position
Combined ABS does not function at low speeds ( approximately 6 km / h ( 4 mph ) or below ) .
The brake lever position can be adjusted to suit the rider ' s preference .
To adjust the brake lever position , loosen the locknut , and turn the adjuster to either side with a wrench .
A . Brake Lever
Test the braking power and check that there is no brake drag .
If the brake lever or pedal feels mushy , there might be air in the brake lines or the brake may be defective .
Since it is dangerous to operate the motorcycle under such conditions , have the brake checked immediately .
Disc Brake Fluid
Inspect the brake fluid level in the front and rear reservoirs and change the brake fluid in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
The brake fluid should also be changed when contaminated with dirt or water .
Use only heavy-duty brake fluid as follows .
For trailing arm mount 17 center side
Front brake fluid :
DOT 3 or DOT 4
Rear brake fluid :
To adjust the rebound damping , turn the adjuster on the each front fork cylinder valve with a flat-head screwdriver .
The motorcycle is shipped with brake fluid DOT4 in the brake system .
Check for fluid leakage around the brake system fittings .
Stem Nut Wrench ( P / N . 57001-1100 )
Check for brake hose damage .
Brake Fluid Level Inspection ( Front and Rear Reservoirs )
Combined ABS will not function if the battery is discharged .
With the front or rear reservoir positioned horizontally , the brake fluid must always be above the minimum level line .
A . Front Reservoir
Minimum Level Line
A . Rear Reservoir
If the brake fluid in the front or rear reservoir is below the minimum level line , check for fluid leaks in the brake line and fill the reservoir to the maximum level line .
( The step inside the front and rear reservoirs indicate the maximum level . )
Maximum Level Line
Do not mix two types or brands of brake fluid .
If brake fluid is to be added but the fluid already in the brake system is not identifiable , the entire fluid must be changed .
Brake Pad Wear Inspection
Index unit
Combined break system does not function when the main battery is discharged .
Install the handlebar , check the steering again and readjust it if necessary .
Depending on the model , the fork rebound damping adjuster has at least 16 positions .
Inspect the brake pads for wear in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance chart .
Loosen the upper front fork clamp bolts .
A . Upper Front Fork Clamp Bolts
If the thickness of any pad in any ( front or rear ) brake caliper is less than 1 mm , have both pads in the caliper replaced as a set .
Usable Brake Pad Range
Apply the specified torques to the steering head nut and upper front fork clamp bolts .
Upper Fork Clamp Bolt Tightening Torque
Steering Inspection
( Model equipped with Combined ABS ) .
To check the steering adjustment , raise the front wheel off the ground using a jack ( special tool ) .
Push the handlebar lightly to either side .
If the handlebar continues moving under its own momentum , the steering is not too tight .
Squatting in front of the motorcycle , grasp the lower ends of the front fork at the axle , and push and rock the front fork back and forth as shown .
Remove the steering head nut , and raise the upper fork clamp .
A . Upper Front Fork Clamp
If play is felt , the steering is too loose and needs to be adjusted .
Steering Adjustment
Raise the front wheel off the ground using a jack ( special tool ) .
Install the upper front fork clamp to the original position .
Open the main and secondary fuse box cover .
Remove the number plate .
Remove the handlebar .
Loosen the left and right front fork upper clamp bolts .
Remove the steering head nut , and raise the front fork upper clamp .
A . Front Fork Upper Clamp
Steering Head Nut
C . Front Fork Upper Clamp Bolts
Turn the steering stem locknut with a stem nut wrench ( special tool ) to obtain the proper adjustment .
A . Steering Stem Locknut
Stem Nut Wrench ( P . N . 57001-1100 )
Yellow ) ( Right :
Install the front fork upper clamp to the original position .
Apply the specified torques to the steering head nut and front fork upper clamp bolts .
Steering Head Nut Tightening Torque
Front Fork Upper Clamp Bolt Tightening Torque
Install the handlebar and apply the specified torque , check the steering again and readjust it if necessary .
Front Suspension
Holding the brake lever , pump the front fork back and forth manually to check for smooth operation .
If necessary , repair or replace by an authorized dealer .
If the inner tube is badly bent or creased , replace it .
Excessive bending , followed by subsequent straitening , can weaken the inner tube .
Front Fork Adjustment
Any of the following front fork adjustments should be made to tune the front suspension to the rider ' s weight and the condition of the track .
Basically , there are six adjustments you can make to the front fork .
Turning the adjuster 13 clicks counterclockwise from the fully seated position is the standard setting , turning it counterclockwise 16 or more clicks ( depending on the model ) is the softest setting .
Depending on the model , the fork compression damping adjuster has at least 16 positions .
Fork Oil Level Adjustment
Air Pressure
Air pressure acts as a progressive spring over the entire fork travel range .
Since the air pressure in the fork legs increases with normal use , the fork action on your KX will get stiffer as the race progresses .
Therefore , it is not recommended to increase the air pressure for additional springing .
Pink )
The KX forks are designed to function without added air .
Rebound Damping Adjustment
This adjustment affects how quickly the fork rebounds .
The fully seated position ( adjuster turned fully clockwise ) is the hardest setting .
Compression Damping Adjustment
This adjustment affects how quickly the fork compresses .
Fork Oil Amount Adjustment
The fork oil amount affects only the final 100 mm of fork travel .
A higher oil amount will make the fork rebound more quickly .
A lower oil amount will make the fork rebound more slowly .
Yellow , Right :
Fork Springs
Optional springs , softer and stiffer than standard , are available .
Fork Clamp Position
Steering is greatly affected by the fork clamp position ( how much the outer fork tubes protrude above the upper fork clamp ) .
The less the fork tube protrudes , the lighter the front end becomes and the greater the tendency for understeering and washout due to weight biasing .
Increasing the amount of fork tube protrusion has opposite effects .
Be sure that the front tire does not touch the fender when the fork is fully compressed .
Remove the screw on each front fork base valve assembly to let the air pressure equalize .
Make this adjustment in 10 mm steps .
10 clicks *
We hope this car will provide you the best driving experience ever .
The right and left fork tubes must be adjusted evenly .
Air Pressure Adjustment
The standard air pressure in the front fork legs is atmospheric ( 0 kPa , 0 kgf / cm ² ) .
Air pressure in the fork legs increase with normal use , so the fork action stiffens during operation .
Release air pressure from the fork legs prior to each race through the pressure relief screw located in each front fork cap .
ensure the front forks are fully extended with the front wheel off the ground when releasing the pressure .
* Counterclockwise from the fully seated position
Remove the screw on each front fork top plug to let the air pressure equalize .
Then , reinstall the screws .
A . Air Pressure Relief Screw
( Light blue )
To adjust the compression damping , turn the adjuster on each front fork base valve assembly with a flat-head screwdriver .
A . Screw
Clean the bottom of the fork tubes .
Remove the caps on the bottom of the fork tubes .
why spend more in your new car ?
To adjust the rebound damping , turn the adjuster on each front fork top plug with a flat-head screwdriver .
Adjust the rebound damping to suit your preference under certain conditions .
Do not force the rebound and compression damping force adjusters beyond the fully seated position , or the adjusting mechanism may be damaged .
A . Rebound Damping Adjuster
Rebound Damping Adjuster Settings
When removing and installing the wheel , be careful not to damage the sensor and vibrating ring
Front Fork Removal
Remove the front fork protector by removing the bolts .
A . Seated Position ( Adjuster Turned Fully Clockwise )
Softer ( Counterclockwise )
C . Harder ( Clockwise )
D . Standard Setting
: Number of turns counterclockwise usable range-16 clicks or more .
Standard Rebound Damping Adjuster Setting
5 clicks
Counterclockwise from the fully seated position
Right hand side release cylinder
Remove the speed sensor guide BX and speed sensor GB3 from the right fork leg by removing the bolts ( ) .
Install the caps on the bottom of the fork tubes .
To adjust the compression damping , turn the adjuster on the each front fork cylinder valve with a flat-head screwdriver .
Adjust the compression damping to suit your preference under certain conditions .
A . Compression Damping Adjuster
* : Number of turns counterclockwise usable range-22 clicks or more .
Compression Damping Adjuster Settings
Standard Compression Damping Adjuster Setting
Front Fork Oil Change
Thoroughly clean the fork before disassembly .
Be careful not to scratch the inner tube and not to damage the dust seal .
It is recommended to release the break first and then look or feel under the dashboard .
Top Plug Wrench ( P . N . 57001-1645 )
Avoid scratching or damaging the inner tube or the dust seal .
Use a mild detergent and sponge out dirt with plenty of water .
Loosen the front fork upper clamp bolts .
Set the rebound and compression damping setting to the softest settings before disassembly to prevent the needle of adjusters from damping .
Record the setting before turning the adjuster .
Loosen the front fork top plug with the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) .
Do not take off the top plug .
A . Front Fork Top Plug
Top Plug Wrench , 49 mm ( P . N . 57001-1653 )
Install the speed sensor and speed sensor guide to the middle fork leg then check the clearance between the speed sensor and the vibrating ring .
Support the motorcycle using a jack ( special tool ) .
Unscrew the front axle nut , and then loosen the left front axle clamp bolts .
Remove the brake caliper from the fork leg to be removed , and rest the caliper on some kind of stand so that it does not dangle .
Insert the wood wedge between the disc brake pads .
This prevents them from being moved out of their proper position , if the brake lever is squeezed accidentally .
Remove the brake hose holder and fork protector .
A . Front Axle Nut
Left Front Axle Clamp Bolts ( Loosen )
C . Brake Caliper
D . Brake Hose Holder
Install the speed sensor and speed sensor guide assemblies to the right fork leg and tighten the bolts then check the clearance between the speed sensor and pulser ring .
E . Fork Protector
F . Bolt
Loosen the right front axle clamp bolts .
Place a suitable stand under the engine to raise the front wheel off the ground .
Remove the axle , and pull out the wheel .
Take off the collar and cap from each side of the front hub .
Do not lay the wheel on the ground with the disc facing down .
This can damage or warp the disc . Place blocks under the wheel so the disc does not touch the ground .
Set rebound damping and compression damping setting to the softest settings before disassembly to prevent the needle of adjusters from damping .
A . Right Front Axle Clamp Bolts
Hook , 12
Axle
Do not take off the base valve assembly .
C . Collar
D . Cap
Loosen the front fork cylinder unit using the top plug wrench ( special tool ) .
Loosen the front fork lower clamp bolts .
A . Front Fork Lower Clamp Bolts
Remove the front fork by pulling down while twisting it .
Standard Length
A . Pull down by twisting .
You can take the car for a test ride
Using the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) , remove the fork top plug from the outer tube and slowly slide down the outer tube .
A . Top Plug Wrench , 49 mm ( P . N . 57001-1653 )
Front Fork Top Plug
C . Outer Tube
D . Slide Down
Place a drain pan under the front fork and drain fork oil .
Pump the fork tube several times to discharge all the fork oil .
commercially available fork Oil
Raise the outer tube and temporarily install the fork top plug to the outer tube using the top plug wrench , 49 mm .
Outer Tube
Release the tabs by pushing the front tab backward , then remove the fuse box cover .
C . Top Plug Wrench , 49 mm ( P . N . 57001-1653 )
Hold the axle holder with a vise .
Protect the axle holder with a soft jaw or heavy cloth when using a vise .
Compress the outer tube by hands and install the top plug wrench ( special tool ) between the axle holder bottom and locknut .
Clamping the axle holder too tight can damage it which will affect riding stability .
Check the push rod installation with its click by turning the push rod right and left .
Slowly turn the adjuster assembly clockwise until resistance is felt and check the clearance between the locknut and adjuster assembly for more than 1 mm .
Do not clamp the axle holder too tight .
Protect the axle holder with a rag when using a vise .
Loosen the adjuster assembly completely .
To changes the fuses , it is recommended to remove the fuel tank first , or this should be empty .
When removing the adjuster assembly , do not force to loosen it at once using an impact wrench .
A . Axle Holder Part
Adjuster Assembly
Compress the outer tube by hands and install the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) between the axle holder bottom and lock nut .
Be careful of reaction force in spring and fix surely so that the special tool should not come off .
Do not place the finger etc . while servicing .
Axle Holder Bottom
C . Lock Nut
Hold the locknut with a wrench and remove the adjuster assembly .
Do not remove the locknut from the piston rod .
There is a Bluetooth link near the cigarrette socket
The piston rod may slide into the inner tube .
With the outer tube compressed by hand , remove the top plug wrench ( special tool ) .
C . Adjuster Assembly
Remove the push rod .
A . Push Rod
With the outer tube compressed by hand , remove the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) .
Removing the lock nut and pushing the piston rod thread into the cylinder unit will damage the oil seal .
Do not remove the lock nut from the piston rod .
Be careful of reaction force from the fork spring when removing the top plug wrench .
Hold the cylinder unit tight enough so that the locknut does not damage the fork leg .
Close the main fuse box cover and install the front seat .
Remove the fork leg from vise .
Loosen the front fork top plug with the top plug wrench ( special tool ) .
Remove the cylinder unit and fork spring from the outer tube .
Disassembling the cylinder unit can lead to trouble .
Do not disassemble the cylinder unit .
A . Cylinder Unit
Fork Spring
D . Piston Rod
Holding the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) with a vise , loosen the base valve assembly on the cylinder unit .
Base Valve Assembly
Left hand side release cylinder
Refer to an official Shop Manual .
C . Cylinder Unit
Remove the base valve assembly from the cylinder unit .
Be careful not to damage the bushing of the base valve .
A . Base Valve Assembly
Cylinder Unit
Slowly compress the piston rod until it stops so that the base valve assembly can be removed easily .
Disassembling the base valve assembly can lead to trouble .
Do not disassemble the base valve assembly .
Drain the fork oil from the cylinder unit by pumping the piston rod several times .
Hold the front fork at the inverted position for more than 20 minutes to allow the fork oil to fully drain .
Blue )
Clean the threads of cylinder unit and base valve assembly .
A . Threads
With the piston rod fully stretched , pour 193 mL of fork oil .
Replace the O-ring on the base valve assembly and cylinder unit with new ones .
Apply specified fork oil to the O-rings and bushings on the base valve assembly .
A . O-ring
Bushing
With the piston rod fully compressed , pour the specified amount of fork oil .
Plug the two oil holes on the cylinder unit with fingers .
Oil Holes
Screw , 17
Recommended Fork Oil
Standard Fork Oil Amount ( Cylinder Unit )
Pump the piston rod slowly several times to expel air .
Hold the piston rod immovable with the fully compressed position .
A . Compressed Position
Gently install the base valve assembly to the cylinder unit .
Do not damage the bushings when assembling the base valve .
Screw in the base valve assembly in the cylinder unit when the piston rod extends .
When it is hard to screw in the base valve assembly , pull down the piston rod a little .
Hold the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) with a vise .
To change these fuses , the fuel tank must be removed .
Holding the cylinder unit with the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) , torque the base valve assembly to the specified torque .
C . Base Valve Assembly
Base Valve Assembly Tightening Torque
Protect the piston rod end with a heavy cloth to prevent piston rod thread damage .
Hold the cylinder unit at the up right position and slowly pump the piston rod several times about 100 mm .
Check if the locknut is completely screwed on to the piston rod .
Heavy Cloth
Protect the piston rod end with a rag to prevent fork damage .
Discharge the extra oil off the cylinder unit by pumping the piston rod to full stroke .
Be careful not to bend or damage the piston rod when the piston rod is stroked .
Diagnostic System .
Service carefully because oil flies out from the oil hole of the cylinder unit .
Set the compression damping force setting to the softest .
Piston Rod End
Rag
Pump the Piston
Check the piston rod sliding surface for damage .
Apply fork oil to the piston rod sliding surface .
Sometimes , this is caused by a broken spring o damper .
Drain the extra oil from the cylinder unit oil hole .
A . Oil Hole
With the cylinder unit in horizontal position , slide the piston rod by hand to inspect it if operating smoothly .
If the piston rod is not extend , remove the base valve assembly and perform the air bleeding ( pour the specified amount fork oil and discharge an excess of oil ) .
A . Slide Piston Rod .
Piston Rod
ensure about 16 mm of push rod thread is exposed from the lock nut .
Lock Nut
Completely wipe off the fork oil from the spring and cylinder unit .
Insert the spring and cylinder unit to the outer tube .
Temporarily tighten the fork top plug by using the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) .
Clamp the axle holder with a vise .
Be careful of reaction force in spring and fix surely so that special tool should not come off .
Do not place the fingers etc . while serving .
Insert the push rod into the piston rod .
Check the push rod installation by turning the push rod right and left .
Replace the O-ring on the adjuster assembly with new ones and apply specified fork oil to the O-ring .
Slowly turn the adjuster assembly clockwise until resistance is felt and check the clearance between the lock nut and adjuster assembly for more than 1 mm .
A . Adjuster Assembly
Overall length
More Than 1 mm
Turn the lock nut counterclockwise until it contacts with the adjuster assembly .
With the lock nut held immovable using a wrench , tighten the adjuster assembly to the specified torque .
Lock Nut / Adjuster Assembly Tightening Torque
With the outer tube compressed by hands , remove the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads of a adjuster assembly .
Torque the adjuster assembly to the specified torque .
Adjuster Assembly Tightening Torque
C . Torque Wrench
Compare the length at assembly and at disassembly .
Overall width
Pour the specified amount of fork oil into the outer tube .
Standard Fork Oil Quantity
Fork Oil
Be sure the oil capacity is the same in both fork legs .
- 417 mL
Standard Fork Oil Amount
Fork spring
4.6 N · mm ( 0.46 kgf · mm )
Fork oil amount
Adjustable Range
Overall height
- 370 mL
When changing the fork spring , the oil quantity is as shown in the table .
SOFT : 4.5 N · mm
( K = 0.47 kgf / mm )
Standard Oil Quantity
HARD : 4.7 N · mm
Install the front forks to the motorcycle .
Tighten the front fork lower clamp bolts to the specified torque .
R / H Loctite applicator
Wheelbase
Front Fork Lower Clamp Bolts Tightening Torque
Tighten the front fork top plug with using the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) to the specified torque .
Front Fork Top Plug Tightening Torque
The torque of fork top plug is specified to 30 N · m ( 3.1 kgf · m ) however , when you use the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) , reduce the torque to 90 % of the specified value [ 27 N · m ( 2.8 kgf · m ) ] due to the distance between the center of the square hole , where the torque wrench is fitted , and that of the octagonal hole of the wrench .
This torque value [ 31 N · m ( 3.1 kgf · m ) ] is applicable when you use a torque wrench whose length gives leverage of approximately 310 mm between the grip point to the center of the coupling square .
Tighten the front fork upper clamp bolts to the specified torque .
Front Fork Upper Clamp Bolts Tightening Torque
A . Top Plug Wrench
Distance
Install the brake caliper to the fork leg , and tighten the brake caliper bolts to the specified torque .
Brake Caliper Bolts Tightening Torque
Take out wood wedge between the disc brake pads .
Apply grease to the oil seals of the wheel .
Install the caps and collars on the left and right side of the hub .
Put the front wheel assembly between the fork legs , and insert the front brake disc into the front brake pads .
A . Front Axle Clamp Bolts
Front Axle
Insert the front axle from the right side of the motorcycle .
Tighten the front axle nut to the specified torque .
Front Axle Nut Tightening Torque
Engine oil After draining
Tighten the left front axle clamp bolt to the specified torque .
C . Collars
Left Front Axle Clamp Bolt Tightening Torque
A . Collars
Caps
C . Axle
D . Right Front Axle Clamp Bolts
E . Axle Nut
F . Left Front Axle Clamp Bolts
G . Oil Seal
After draining and
Remove the jack and stand supporting the motorcycle .
Before tightening the clamp bolts on the right fork leg , pump the forks up and down 4 or 5 times to allow the right fork leg to find a neutral position on the front axle .
Do not apply the front brake during this process to stop the motorcycle from rolling forward .
Put a block in front of the wheel to stop it from moving .
A . Pump up and down
Block
Tighten the two clamp bolts alternately two times to ensure even tightening torque .
Tighten the right axle clamp bolts to the specified torque .
Right Front Axle Clamp Bolt Tightening Torque
Check the front brake for good braking power and no brake drag .
oil filter change
Do not attempt to drive the motorcycle until a full brake lever is obtained by pumping the brake lever until the pads are against the disc . The brake will not function on the first application of the lever if this is not done .
Adjust the compression and rebound damping force adjusters .
Optional Fork Springs
Various fork springs are available to achieve suitable front fork action in accordance with the rider ' s weight and track condition .
Harder springs stiffen the fork action and accelerate the rebound damping .
Softer springs soften the fork action and slow down the rebound damping .
Fork Clamp Position Adjustment
A . Standard Fork Clamp Position
Standard Fork Clamp Position
After disassembly
* below the surface of the top plug
This motorcycle ' s rear suspension system is called UNI-TRAK ® " and consists of a rear shock absorber unit , a swingarm , two lever rclip and a lever .
below the surface of the top plug
Rear Suspension ( UNI-TRAK ® )
This motorcycle ' s rear suspension system is called “ UNI-TRAK ® ” and consists of a rear shock absorber unit , a swingarm , two lever rclip and a lever .
The operating characteristics of the UNI-TRAK ® suspension are similar to those of the front fork .
However , a linkage system is used to achieve progressive springing characteristics .
Pump the seat down and up by 4 or 5 times , and inspect the smooth stroke .
If it does not smoothly or noise is found , inspect the oil leak and rear shock absorber mounting .
The rear shock absorber can be adjusted by changing the spring preload and rebound and compression damping force for various riding and loading conditions .
Fuel tank
* Number of turns counterclockwise usable range-22 clicks or more
12th Clicks *
To adjust the low speed compression damping turn the low speed compression damping adjuster with a flat head screwdriver .
Rear Shock Absorber Adjustment
The spring preload of the shock absorber can be adjusted or the spring can be replaced with an optional one to suit various riding conditions .
In addition , the damping force can be adjusted easily , making it unnecessary to change the oil viscosity .
To adjust the rear shock absorber rebound damping , turn the rebound damping adjuster at the bottom of the rear shock absorber with a flat-head screwdriver .
If the damping feels too soft or too stiff , adjust it in accordance with the following table .
Number of turns counterclockwise usable range-16 clicks or more
11th position
Cooling system capacity
Adjustment of the rebound damping adjuster for the rear suspension will slightly affect the compression damping force .
Always make any damping adjustments in small steps and test their effects before using them in competition .
Compression Damping Adjustment ( Gas Reservoir )
There are two adjustments you can make to the rear shock absorber gas reservoir .
To adjust the high speed compression damping , turn the high speed compression damping adjuster .
To adjust the low speed compression damping , turn the low speed compression damping adjuster with a flat head screwdriver .
A . Compression Damping Adjuster for High Speed
Compression Damping Adjuster for Low Speed
High Speed Compression Damping Adjuster Setting
- 4 turns out
Passenger capacity
If the damper setting feels too soft or too stiff , adjust it in accordance with the following table .
Low Speed Compression Damping Adjuster Settings
High speed
Low speed
1 2 / 4 turns out
11th clicks
Remove the seat and both side covers .
Remove the rear frame bolt ( upper side ) .
Remove the rear portion of the frame along with the air cleaner case .
A . Rear Portion of the Frame
Maximum weight capacity
Air Cleaner Case
Raise the rear wheel off the ground using a jack ( special tool ) .
Using the hook wrenches ( special tool ) , loosen the locknut on the rear shock absorber .
A . Spring Preload Adjusting Nut
C . Hook Wrenches ( P . N . 57001-1101 )
Using the hook wrench ( special tool ) , turn the spring preload adjusting nut as required .
Using the stem nut wrench ( special tool ) , turn the spring preload adjusting nut as required .
Turning the adjusting nut down increases the spring preload .
A . Hook Wrench ( P . N . 57001-1102 )
A . Stem Nut Wrench ( P . N . 57001-1100 )
Angle
L / H Loctite applicator
Spring Preload Adjusting Nut
The standard adjusting nut position from the center of the upper rear shock absorber pivot point is 127.5 mm .
Rear Shock
The adjustable range is as shown in the table below .
Rear Shock Absorber Spring
( K = 5.2 kgf · mm )
- 130.2 mm .
- 138.5 mm .
: Standard
Bore and stroke
A . Adjusting Nut Position
C . Spring Preload Adjusting Nut
Spring Preload Adjusting Nut Tightening Torque
Tighten the locknut securely .
After making the adjustment , move the spring up and down to ensure that it is properly seated .
After installing the rear frame bolt ( upper side ) temporarily , install the air cleaner duct clamp to the air cleaner duct while bringing down the rear frame a little .
Check the air cleaner duct is installed securely .
Optional Rear Shock Absorber Springs
Various rear shock absorber springs are available to achieve suitable rear shock absorber action in accordance with the rider ' s weight and track condition .
A harder spring stiffens the shock absorber action and accelerates the rebound damping .
Compression ratio
A softer spring softens the shock absorber action and slows down the rebound damping .
Improper removal or installation of the rear shock absorber spring may cause the spring and / or related parts to be ejected at high velocity .
Always wear eye and face protection when working on the rear shock absorber .
Removal and installation of the rear shock absorber spring should be performed by an authorized dealer .
Tire air pressure affects traction , handling , and tire life .
Adjust the tire air pressure to suit track conditions and rider preference , but keep it close within the recommended range .
To check the tire air pressure , remove the air valve cap , and ensure to tighten the cap securely after checking the tire pressure .
Reduce the tire air pressure to increase the tire tread surface on the ground when riding on a wet , muddy , sandy or slippery track .
Increase the tire air pressure to prevent damage or punctures ( though the tires will skid more easily ) when riding on a pebbly or hard track .
Tire Air Pressure Adjustable Range
Displacement
80 kPa ( 0.8 kgf / cm ² ) -
Tire air pressure should be checked when the tires are cold , before you ride the motorcycle .
Spokes and Rims
The spokes on both wheels must all be securely and evenly tightened and not be allowed to loosen .
Unevenly tightened or loose spokes will cause the rim to warp , the nipples and spokes to fatigue more quickly , and the spokes to break .
A . Spoke and Spark Plug Wrench
Bead Protector
There is a bead protector on the both wheels .
The bead protector prevents the tire and tube from slipping on the rim and damaging the valve stem .
Valve stem damage may cause the tube to leak , necessitating tube replacement .
Spark plug
In order to keep the tire and tube in position on the rim , inspect the bead protector before riding and tighten it if necessary .
Tighten the valve stem nut finger tight only .
A . Bead Protector
Rim Runout
Set up a dial gauge on the side of the rim and rotate the wheel to measure its axial runout .
The difference between the highest and lowest readings is the amount of runout .
Set up the dial gauge on the inner circumference of the rim and rotate the wheel to measure its radial runout .
A certain amount of rim warpage ( runout ) can be corrected by recentering the rim , that is , by loosening some spokes and tightening other to change the position of certain portions of the rim .
If the rim is badly bent , however , it should be replaced .
The welding spot of the rim may show excessive runout .
Standard
Disregard this when measuring rim runout .
A . Rim
D . Ozonic Cracks
Radial Runout
C . Axial Runout
Rim Runout Maximum Limit
A . Axial Rim Runout Measurement
A . Radial Rim Runout Measurement
Idle speed
Hoses Inspection
Check the brake and fuel hoses for cracks or deterioration , and the connections for looseness in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Inspect the brake hose and fittings for deterioration , cracks and signs of leakage by bending or twisting the hoses .
If damaged , replace the hoses .
A . Leakage
Cracks
C . Bulges
Rotor Nut
D . Ozone Cracks
Check the hose are securely connected and clamps are tightened correctly .
Valve clearance ( Cold )
Tightening Torques of Nuts and Bolts
Uni-Trak Arm Bolt
( Front )
Location of nuts and bolts
Before the first ride of each day of operation , check the tightness of the nuts and bolts shown below .
Check also that all cotter pins are in place and in good condition .
Front Fork Clamp Bolts
Handlebar Clamp Bolts
Clutch Lever Holder Bolt
Cylinder Head Bolts
Green )
Cylinder Bolts
Rear Frame Bolts
Brake Disc Mounting Bolts
Front Axle Nut
Front Axle Clamp Bolts
Brake Caliper Bolts
Engine Mounting Bolts and Nuts
Camshaft Chain Tensioner Bolts
Shift Pedal Bolts
Swingarm Pivot Shaft Nut
ABS will not function if the ABS main or the ABS motor fuses are blown .
Rear Sprocket Nut
Silencer Pipe Mounting Bolts
Silencer Cover Mounting Bolts
Rear Master Cylinder Mounting Bolts
Cylinder Head Bracket Nut
Front Master Cylinder Mounting Bolts
Rear Axle Nut
UNI-TRAK ® Lever Rod Bolt
Rear Brake Pedal Pivot Bolt
( Rear )
R / H Loctite pump
Caster
Rear Shock Absorber Bolt and Nut
UNI-TRAK Arm Bolt
Kick Pedal Pivot Bolt
Clutch Cover Bolts
Engine Oil Drain Plugs
Water Pump Cover Bolts
Torque table
Tighten all nuts and bolts to the proper torque using an accurate torque wrench .
An insufficiently tightened nut or bolt may become damaged or fall out , possibly resulting in damage to the motorcycle and injury to the rider .
An overtightened nut or bolt may become damaged , broken , or fall out .
Trail
: Apply the oil to the threads and seating surface , if removed .
Part Name
Engine Oil Drain Plug ( Oil Filter Cover )
Camshaft Cap Bolts
Engine Oil Drain Plug
Oil Filter Cover Bolts
Tyre size , Front
Shift Pedal Bolt
Coolant Drain Plug
Clutch Spring Bolts
Generator Cover Bolts
Engine Bracket Nut / Bolt
Engine Mounting Bolts
Silencer Bolts
Rear Shock Absorber Upper Bolt
Tyre size , Rear
Rear Shock Absorber Lower Nut
Steering Stem Locknut
UNI-TRAK ® Arm Bolt
UNI-TRAK ® Rod Bolts
Rear Sprocket Nuts
Front Brake Master Cylinder Clamp Bolts
Air Cleaner Duct Clamp Screw
Cylinder Intake Duct Clamp Screw
Avoid surfaces with “ satin " or “ flat " finishes .
Condensation may form on the inside of the headlight lens after riding in the rain , washing the motorcycle or humid weather .
Tyre type
Use care when washing the plastic parts as they can easily be scratched .
Avoid spraying water in delicate areas such as in air intakes , carburetors , brake components , electrical components , muffler outlets , and fuel tank openings .
Preparation for Storage -
When dry , treat the windshield , headlight lens , and other nonpainted plastic parts with an approved plastic cleaner / polisher product .
Always use nonabrasive products and apply them according to the instructions on the container .
Plastic Parts
When dry , treat the non-painted plastic parts with an approved plastic cleaner / polisher product .
Empty the fuel system by running the engine at idle speed until the engine stalls ( If left in for a long time , the fuel will break down and could clog the fuel system ) .
Lubricate the areas shown in the illustrations of this section with either motor oil or regular grease , after each race and whenever the vehicle has been operated under wet or rainy conditions , especially after using a high-pressure spray washer .
Before lubricating a part , clean off any rust with rust remover and wipe off any grease , oil , dirt , or grime .
Turn the ignition switch to LOCK ( 0 ) , disconnect the negative cable from the battery , and wait at least 3 minutes before beginning installation or replacement of the Polox unit or disconnecting the connectors from the Polox unit .
General Lubrication
Apply motor oil to the following pivots :
Clutch lever
Front brake lever
Rear brake pedal
Rear brake rod joints
Kick pedal
Foot peg
Shift pedal
Apply an aerosol cable lubricant with a pressure lubricator on all cables :
The airbags could accidentally deploy and cause damage or injury .
Clutch cable
Throttle cable
Hot starter cable
Cable Lubrication
Apply grease to the following points :
Upper end of clutch cable
Upper end of throttle cable
Upper end of hot starter cable
A . Grease .
Drive Chain Lubrication
Be careful not to bump or impact the Polox unit , front impact sensors , or side impact sensors when the ignition switch is in ON ( II ) , or for at least 3 minutes after the ignition switch is turned to LOCK ( 0 ) .
Lubricate the drive chain after riding through rain or on wet track , or any time that the chain appears dry .
TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE
This troubleshooting guide is not exhaustive and does not give every possible cause for each problem listed .
It is meant simply as a quick guide to assist you in troubleshooting for some of the more common difficulties .
Starting failure or difficulties -
Engine does not turn over
Valve seized
Valve lifter seized
Cylinder or piston seized
Crankshaft seized
During installation or replacement , be careful not to bump ( by impact wrench , hammer , etc . ) the area around the Polox unit , front impact sensors , or side impact sensors .
Connecting rod small end seized
Connecting rod big end seized
Camshaft seized
Transmission gear or bearing seized
Kick shaft return spring broken
Kick ratchet gear not engaging
Fuel does not flow
No fuel in tank
Fuel tap turned off
Tank cap air vent obstructed
Primary reduction
Fuel tap clogged
Fuel line clogged
Float valve clogged
Engine flooded
Fuel level too high
Float valve worn or stuck open
Wrong starting technique ( when the engine is flooded , kick with the throttle fully closed by pulling the hot starter lever in . )
Spark missing or weak
Spark plug dirty , broken , or gap improperly adjusted
Spark plug cap or high-tension wiring defective
L / H Loctite pump
Gear ratio , 1st
Spark plug cap not contacting properly
Spark plug type incorrect
Crankshaft sensor defective
CDI unit defective
Ignition coil defective
Engine stop switch wiring defective
Ignition coil resistor defective / disconnected
Flywheel magneto damaged
Neutral switch defective
Wiring shorted or interrupted
2nd
Fuel-air mixture incorrect
Idling adjusting / pilot screw improperly adjusted
Slow jet or air passage clogged
Air cleaner element clogged , poorly sealed , or not installed
Starter jet clogged
Compression low
Spark plug loose
Cylinder head insufficiently tightened
Cylinder nut loose
Cylinder or piston worn
3rd
No valve clearance
Crankshaft oil seal leak
Valve spring broken or weak
Valve not seating properly ( valve bent , worn , or carbon accumulation on the seating surface )
Piston ring worn , weak , broken , or sticking
Piston ring side clearance excessive
Cylinder head gasket damaged
Cylinder head warped
Cylinder gasket damaged
Poor low-speed performance -
4th
Spark weak
Spark plug cap shorted or not contacting properly
Flywheel magneto defective
Wiring connector not in good contact
Slow jet , Needle jet or air passage clogged
Starter plunger stuck open
Carburetor fuel level too high or too low
Fuel tank air vent obstructed
Carburetor holder loose
Air intake duct loose
5th
Hot starter stuck open
Valve not seating properly ( valve bent , worn , or carbon accumulation on the seating surface ) .
Decompression trouble
Other
Air cleaner poorly sealed or missing .
Engine oil viscosity too high
Brake dragging
Ignition timing incorrect
Engine oil level too high
Drive chain trouble
6th
Engine over heating
Clutch slipping
Poor or no high-speed performance -
Firing incorrect
Spark plug dirty , damaged , or gap improperly adjusted
Main jet clogged or wrong size
Jet needle or needle jet worn
Jet needle clip in wrong position
Air jet or air passage clogged
Air cleaner element clogged , poorly sealed or not installed
Final reduction
Fuel supply to carburetor insufficient
Fuel contaminated with water or foreign matter
Needle Jet or air passage clogged
Valve not seating properly ( valve bent , worn , or carbon accumulation on seating surface ) .
Improper acceleration
Main jet clogged
Throttle valve does not fully open
Air cleaner element clogged
Muffler clogged
Engine overheating
Crankshaft bearing worn or damaged
Knocking
Carbon built up in combustion chamber
Fuel quality poor or type incorrect
Engine overheating -
Carburetor fuel level too low
Air intake duct poorly sealed
Compression high
Engine overloaded
Lubrication inadequate
Battery
Engine oil level too low
Engine oil quality poor or type incorrect
Coolant inadequate
Coolant level too low
Coolant deteriorated
Cooling system component defective
Radiator clogged
Radiator cap defective
Water pump not rotating
Clutch operation faulty -
Generator
No clutch lever play
Clutch cable improperly adjusted
Clutch cable defective
Clutch plate worn or warped
Clutch spring broken or weak
Clutch release mechanism defective
Clutch hub or housing unevenly worn
Clutch not disengaging properly
Clutch lever play excessive
Clutch plate warped or too rough
R / H Loctite cylinder
Clutch spring tension uneven
Engine oil deteriorated
Clutch housing frozen on drive shaft
Clutch hub nut loose
Clutch plate warped or rough
Clutch hub spline damaged
Gear shifting faulty -
Transmission does not go into gear ; shift pedal does not return
Clutch not disengaging
Shift fork bent or seized
Headlight
Gear stuck on the shaft
Shift lever broken
Pawl guide plate broken
Shift return spring weak or broken
Shift return spring pin loose
Shift pawl broken
Shift pawl spring tension lose
Shift drum broken
Transmission jumps out of gear
Shift fork worn
Brake / Tail light
Gear groove worn
Gear dogs and / or dog grooves worn
Shift drum groove worn
Gear positioning lever spring weak or broken
Shift fork pin worn
Drive shaft , output shaft , and / or gear splines worn
Transmission skips gears
Pawl guide plate worn
Engine noise abnormal -
Piston slap
Turn signal light Front
Piston clearance excessive
Connecting rod bent
Piston pin or piston pin bores worn
Valve noise
Valve clearance incorrect
Camshaft bearing or camface worn
Valve lifter worn
Other noise
Connecting rod small end clearance excessive
Connecting rod big end clearance excessive
Rear
Piston ring worn , broken or stuck
Piston seized or damaged
Cylinder head gasket leaking
Exhaust pipe leaking at cylinder head
Crankshaft runout excessive
Engine mounts loose
Crankshaft bearing worn
Primary gear worn or chipped
Camshaft chain tensioner trouble
Camshaft chain , sprocket , chain guide worn
Position light
Decompression spring broken
Flywheel magneto loose
Abnormal drive train noise -
Clutch noise
Clutch housing / friction plate clearance excessive
Clutch housing gear excessive
Metal chip jammed in clutch housing gear teeth
Transmission noise
Crankcase bearing worn or damaged
Transmission gear worn or chipped
License light
Metal chip jammed in gear teeth
Engine oil level or viscosity too low
Kick ratchet gear not properly disengaging from kick gear
Output shaft idle gear worn or chipped
Drive chain noise
Drive chain slack improperly adjusted
Drive chain worn
Rear and / or engine sprocket ( s ) worn
Drive chain inefficiently lubrified
Rear wheel misaligned
Frame noise abnormal -
Front fork noise
Oil level or viscosity too low
Spring weak or broken
Front fork air pressure high
Rear shock absorber noise
Shock absorber damaged
Disc brake noise
Pad installed incorrectly
Pad surface glazed
Main fuse
Brake disc warped
Brake caliper defective
Brake cylinder damaged
Bracket , nut , bolt , etc . improperly mounted or tightened
Exhaust smoke -
Excessively white
Piston oil ring worn
Cylinder worn
Valve oil seal damaged
Valve guide worn
Other fuses
Black smoke
Main jet too large or fallen out
Fuel level in carburetor float bowl too high
Brownish
Main jet too small
Fuel level in carburetor float bowl too low
Air cleaner duct loose
Air cleaner O-ring damaged
Handlebar pulls to one side
Condition *
L / H Loctite cylinder
Poor handling and / or stability -
Handlebar hard to turn
Control cable incorrectly routed
Wiring incorrect routed
Steering stem locknut too tight
Roller bearing damaged
Steering stem inadequately lubricated
Steering stem bent
Tire air pressure too low
Handlebar shakes or vibrates excessively
( 1 ) Fuel gauge
Tire worn
Swingarm sleeve or needle bearing damaged
Rim warped or out of balance
Front and / or rear axle runout excessive
Wheel bearing worn
Handlebar clamp loose
Steering head nut loose
Frame bent
Wheel misaligned
Swingarm bent or twisted
( 2 ) Left turn signal indicator
Swingarm pivot shaft runout excessive
Steering maladjusted
Front fork leg bent
Right / left front fork oil level uneven
Shock absorption unsatisfactory ( suspension too hard )
Front fork oil excessive
Front fork oil viscosity too high
Tire air pressure too high
Rear shock absorber improperly adjusted
Shock absorption unsatisfactory ( suspension too soft )
( 3 ) Immobilizer system ( HISS ) indicator
Front fork oil level insufficient and / or front fork leaking oil
Front fork oil viscosity too low
Front fork and / or rear shock absorber spring weak
Rear shock absorber leaking gas
Poor braking performance -
Air in the brake line
Brake pad or disc worn
Brake fluid leaking
Brake pads contaminated
Brake fluid deteriorated
( 4 ) Tachometer
Primary and / or secondary master cylinder cup ( s ) damaged
Master cylinder scratched
Brake maladjusted ( lever or pedal play excessive )
ENGINE AND SUSPENSION TUNING
Carburetor Tuning
Tuning a carburetor is not the mysterious science many racers believe it to be .
One only needs to establish a basic knowledge of the identification and function of carburetor components as well as how they work together to do the job well .
Temperature-and altitude-related mixture adjustment
Mixture will be
Loosen the locknuts at the upper of the throttle cables , and screw both throttle cable adjusters in completely so as to give the throttle grip plenty of play .
( 5 ) Tachometer red zone
Cold air
* at constant atmospheric pressure and humidity
leaner
richer
Warm air
Dry air
Low altitude
standard
none
High altitude ( above 1,500 m )
( 6 ) Right turn signal indicator
A " deep " exhaust noise
D . Needle Jet
at constant atmospheric pressure and humidity
The main jet size should be increased or decreased by one to five sizes and the engine tested until its power is maximum .
Symptoms of Improper Mixture
If your machine exhibits one or several of the symptoms listed below , it may need carburetor tuning .
Before attempting any changes , however , ensure that everything else is in good shape and properly tuned .
Check the condition of the spark plug , ensure the ignition timing is correct , service the air cleaner element and decarbonize the muffler .
If your machine has run properly on a certain track in the past and then starts running poorly with the same carburetor settings , the problem is almost certain to be elsewhere ; changing the carburetor settings in such a case would probably be a waste of time .
Symptoms when the mixture is too rich
( 7 ) Multi-function display
Poor acceleration
Misfire at low engine speeds
Excessive smoke
Spark plug fouling
A “ deep ” exhaust noise
Symptoms when the mixture is too lean
Pinging or rattling
Erratic acceleration
Same as when running out of fuel
High engine temperature
( 8 ) HESD indicator
With pinging or rattling , ensure that the gasoline is fresh and the octane rating sufficient .
You might also try a different brand of high-octane gasoline .
Making Adjustments
Carburetor tuning is made by replacing or adjusting the jet needle , main jet and slow jet , which regulate the fuel flow and pilot screw , which regulates the gasoline / air mixture .
The following chart shows the working range of each component .
Note how the working ranges overlap as the throttle valve opens .
A . Main Jet
Jet Needle ( Clip Position )
Adjust the front fork oil quantity ( see Front Fork Oil Change under Front fork in the Maintenance and Adjustment chapter ) .
Oil quantity too high
( 9 ) PGM-FI malfunction indicator lamp
C . Jet Needle ( Straight Section )
If fork bottoming is experienced , raise the fork oil l quantity .
Front Fork Oil Quantity Adjustment -
D . Slow Jet & Pilot Screw
E . Closed
F . Full Open
If you note a particular symptom of too rich or lean mixture in a specific operating range , use the chart to determine which components need adjusting .
Use the following information to decide what changes to make .
Main Jet -
The main jet has its greatest effect in the ½ -to-full -throttle range .
R / H reaction unit
The number stamped on the bottom or side of the main jet indicates the size of the hole in the jet which meters fuel .
The slow jet and pilot screw control the mixture in the closed-to-1 / 8-throttle range , but have little effect between that and full throttle .
The larger the main jet number , the bigger the hole and the more fuel will flow ; hence , larger numbers mean richer jetting ; smaller numbers mean leaner jetting .
Make main jet changes one size at a time .
Slow Jet
C . Jet Needle
Never smoke while working on the carburetor .
Jet Needle -
The jet needle has the greatest effect in the 1 / 4-to-3 / 4-throttle range .
The needle moves in and out of the needle jet .
( 10 ) High coolant temperature indicator
Since the needle is tapered , its position in the needle jet determines the amount of fuel allowed to pass through .
There are seven grooves in the top of the jet needle in which a clip fits .
This clip positions the jet needle in the throttle valve relative to the needle jet .
Moving the clip down has the effect of pulling the needle further out of the jet ; the mixture is thereby enriched .
Similarly , by not pulling the needle further , the mixture may be somewhat poor .
Moving the clip up leans the mixture .
Evidently , it is always better to reach an agreement with the client
Change the clip position one step at a time .
The straight section of the jet needle affects the throttle response at smaller throttle openings .
Clip Position
( 11 ) Low oil pressure indicator
A . Jet Needle Number
Straight Section
C . Leaner
D . Richer
Start by turning the pilot screw while using the pilot screw adjuster D ( special tool ) .
Slow Jet and Pilot Screw -
The slow jet and pilot screw effect in the closed-to-1 / 4-throttle range , but have little effect between that and full throttle .
To adjust the mixture in this range , the pilot screw can be turned to change the mixture , or the slow jet can be replaced to change the fuel flow .
Start by turning the pilot screw while using the pilot screw adjuster ( special tool ) and adapter ( special tool ) .
( 12 ) Neutral indicator
Screwing the pilot screw in thins the mixture .
Pilot screw specifications indicate the number of turns out from the lightly seated position .
Make changes in 1 / 4 - turn increments .
If turning the screw between one and two-and-a -half turns does not provide the desired results , go over to adjusting the slow jet .
E . Decrease quantity
Changing the fork oil quantity works effectively at the end of fork travel .
The slow jet has a number stamped on it , which indicates its size ; the larger the jet number is , the richer the mixture .
Make one-step changes of the slow jet and fine-tune with the pilot screw .
Test Runs
With all carburetor settings on standard , warm up the engine , run two or three laps of the course and examine the spark plug condition with varying throttle openings .
( 13 ) High beam indicator
Fuel-Air Mixture Adjustment
Spark Plug Insulator Condition
Mixture
Dry and a light tan color
correct
Whitish
too lean
Wet and sooty
too rich
If the spark plug insulator is whitish , the fuel-air mixture is too lean .
( 14 ) Combined ABS indicator
Increase the main jet size by one step .
If the spark plug insulator is wet , the fuel-air mixture is too rich .
Reduce the main jet size by one step .
Tune the carburetor so that the engine delivers satisfactory power at all throttle openings .
If the air-fuel mixture is too lean , the engine tends to overheat and may seize up .
On the other hand , if the air-fuel mixture is too rich , the spark plug gets wet , which causes misfiring .
3th groove from top-1 groove = 2nd groove
2 1 / 8 turns out -1 turn out = 1 1 / 8 turns out
If the machine is new , “ break in " the suspension with at least one hour of riding before making any setting evaluations or changes .
The richness of the mixture varies depending on atmospheric conditions ( pressure , humidity , and temperature ) .
Adjust the carburetor taking these conditions into consideration .
Altitude and Temperature Correction Factors
For the following recommendations to be applicable , you must use the standard settings as a base .
Do not change any of the settings until you have determined which are necessary .
All specifications are based on the use of the specified fuel and oil .
Correction Factor Applied to the Jet Needle and Pilot Screw
Correction factor
1.06 or above
0.94 or below
Jet needle setting
( 15 ) RESET button
lower clip one position
same
raise clip one position
Pilot screw opening
one turn out
½ turn out
½ turn in
one turn in
Standard Carburetor Settings
Throttle valve diameter
( 16 ) SEL button
Slow jet
Jet needle
Jet needle clip position
Main jet
Determine the altitude and temperature correction factor .
EXAMPLE : At 1,000 meters altitude and an air temperature of 35 ° C , the correction factor is 0.94 ( see dotted line in the appropriate chart on the previous page ) .
Select the correct slow jet and main jet .
EXAMPLE : For a correction factor of 0.94 , multiply the jet size by that number .
Slow Jet Size Selection for a Correction factor of 0.94
Front Fork Oil Quantity -
When the oil quantity is raised , the air spring becomes more progressive , and the front fork action feels “ harder " in the later stage of fork travel , near the bottom .
When the oil quantity is lowered , the air spring becomes less progressive , and the front fork action does not feel as " hard " in the later stage of fork travel .
Main Jet Size Selection for a Correction factor of 0.94
Change the jet needle clip position and pilot screw opening according to the appropriate chart on the previous page .
EXAMPLE : For a correction factor of 0.94 , raise the needle clip one position and turn in the pilot screw one turn .
Jet Needle Clip and Pilot Screw Setting for a Correction Factor of 0.94
Jet needle clip
4th groove from top-1 groove = 3rd groove
Pilot screw
L / H reaction unit
1 turns out - 1 turn out = fully turning in .
Suspension Tuning
Introduction
No area of machine adjustment is more critical than proper suspension tuning .
An improperly tuned suspension will keep even the best rider from attaining the full benefit of his machine ' s ability .
Match the suspension to the rider and the course conditions .
WHILE TUNING THE SUSPENSION , KEEP THE FOLLOWING IMPORTANT POINTS IN MIND :
If the machine is new , “ break in ” the suspension with at least one hour of riding before making any setting evaluations or changes .
The three major factors which must be considered in suspension tuning are RIDER WEIGHT , RIDER ABILITY , and TRACK CONDITIONS .
Additional influences include the RIDER ' S STYLE and POSITIONING on the machine .
E , IIIE type :
Before changing the suspension settings , test changing your riding posture or position to check whether it is the cause of the problem or not .
It is a wise practice to adjust the suspension to suit the rider ' s strong points .
If you are fast in the corners , adjust the suspension to allow fast cornering .
Make setting changes in small increments .
A little bit goes a long way , and a setting is easily over adjusted .
The front and rear suspension should always be balanced ; when the one is changed , the other one might need to be changed similarly .
When evaluating suspension performance , the rider must make every effort to ride consistently and to recognize the effects of his input .
Such things as changes in rider position and increasing fatigue may lead to incorrect judgments about necessary adjustments .
When the proper settings have been determined for a particular track , they should be written down for reference when returning to the same track .
Lubricate the bearings in the swingarm and UNI-TRAK ® linkage after break-in and after every 5 races to prevent friction from affecting suspension performance .
E , IIIE type only
Front Fork Oil Amount -
The fork oil quantity in the fork tube is adjustable .
A change in the fork oil level will not affect the spring force much at the top of fork travel , but it will have a great effect at the bottom of it .
Fork Oil Quantity Effect on Fork Stroke
C . Increase quantity
D . Standard Oil quantity
When the oil amount is raised , the air spring becomes more progressive , and the front fork action feels “ harder ” in the later stage of fork travel , near the bottom .
When the oil amount is lowered , the air spring becomes less progressive , and the front fork action does not feel as “ hard ” in the later stage of fork travel .
Fork Oil Amount Effect on Fork Stroke
Fork Stroke
Brazil only
C . Increase Amount
D . Standard Oil Amount
E . Decrease Amount
Changing the fork oil level works effectively at the end of fork travel .
If fork bottoming is experienced , raise the fork oil level amount .
This will change the secondary spring rate .
Front Fork Oil Level Adjustment -
Adjust the front fork oil amount ( see Front Fork Oil Change under Front fork in the Maintenance and Adjustment chapter ) .
Troubleshooting Improper Settings
Listed below are some symptoms of improper suspension settings and the most likely means of correcting them .
CBR600RA only
The proper settings can be achieved by applying the information given in this chapter in a scientific , methodical manner .
This does not mean , however , that you must be a scientist or trained technician to succeed .
Simply take time to think about the changes you believe are necessary , check them against the symptoms and cures described here , make the changes in small increments , and take note of the changes and their effects .
Fork oil quantity too high
Fork oil quantity too low
Compression damping too high
Front Fork Improper Adjustment Symptoms -
Too Hard
Spring too stiff
Rebound or compression damping improperly adjusted .
Brake hose mount bolt
Spring too strong
Oil amount too high
Suspension stiffens at the end of the fork stroke
Fork oil amount too high
Fork air pressure high
Spring preload too soft or compression damping too soft
In very dusty conditions , as the air cleaner collects dust , the mixture becomes richer and it may be advisable to apply slightly leaner jetting ( main jet ) .
Spring OK , but suspension too hard
Fork oil deteriorated
Too Soft
Radiator lower mount nut
The front fork dives excessively during braking and deceleration
Fork oil amount too low
Springs too soft
Rebound and / or compression damping improperly adjusted .
Rear shock absorber improper adjustment symptoms -
Suspension too stiff
High speed / low speed Compression damping too high
Spring too hard
Spring OK but suspension too hard
Unbalance between the spring and the rebound damping ( rebound damping too low )
Wheel speed sensor
Spring preload too high ( hard )
Bottoming occurs on landing after a high jump ( otherwise OK )
Spring preload too soft or high speed compression damping too soft
Spring too soft
Shock absorber oil deteriorated
Determining the Proper Settings
Standard Settings
From the factory , the machine is set up for a medium-weight rider with intermediate riding ability .
Hence , if the actual rider weighs considerably more or less , or if his riding experience and ability are much above or below the intermediate level , it is likely that a few basic suspension adjustments will be necessary .
Basic Readjustment of the Suspension
Except U , IIU , BR , IIBR type
Suspension Tuning According to Ground Surface
Smooth terrain
Softer spring
Rough terrain
Harder spring
Suspension Tuning According to Riding Experience
Beginner
softer spring with greater rebound damping
Experienced rider
harder spring
U , IIU , BR , IIBR type
Suspension Tuning According to Rider Weight
Heavy rider
Light rider
softer spring
Suspension Tuning According the Type of Course
Many corners
Lower the front end slightly .
[ Increase the amount of fork tube protrusion above the upper fork clamp by 5 mm ] .
This accelerates steering and enhances turning ability .
Fast course
R / H position carriage
Raise the front end slightly .
[ Decrease the amount of fork tube protrusion above the upper fork clamp by 5 mm ] .
This slows down steering and enhances stability at high speed .
Deep dips or sandy ground
Raise the front end slightly to gain stability .
Begin the actual on-track testing and evaluation after making these preliminary adjustments .
Bear in mind the following points when readjusting the suspension .
Always make changes in small steps .
The rider must be consistent in evaluating suspension performance .
A change in the front suspension might require one in the rear suspension , and vise versa .
The illustrations herein are mainly based on :
Front and Rear Suspension Compatibility Inspection
Use this procedure to determine if the suspension is balanced reasonably well .
Hold the motorcycle upright ( remove the side stand ) .
While standing next to the machine , lightly pull the brake lever , place one foot on the footpeg closest to you , and push down hard .
If the motorcycle stays level as the suspension is compressed , the spring rates are well balanced .
Sit astride the motorcycle , take a riding posture and check that the machine is in a horizontal position .
If one end drops noticeably more than the other , the front and rear are not compatible and must be readjusted to achieve a better balance .
Although this is one of the most effective adjustment procedures , suspension settings may vary depending on the conditions at the track and the rider ' s preferences .
Front and Rear Suspension Troubleshooting
Front End Surges Downhill or During Acceleration Out of Corner -
PTO shaft type S , with fuel tank
The front suspension is too soft .
Increase the compression damping .
Increase the fork oil amount .
Use an optional harder spring , or increase the spring preload .
Front End “ Knifes ” or Oversteers in Turns ( Tends to Turn Inward ) -
Increase the compression damping or rebound damping .
Heavier or expert riders may need a harder spring .
Front End Pushes or “ Washes Out ” in Turns ( Front Wheel Tends to Push Outward Rather than “ Bite ” in a Turn ) -
The front suspension is too stiff .
Decrease the compression damping or rebound damping .
__B3LDATA1PAAAFB07
Release some air from the fork tubes .
Decrease the fork oil amount .
Use a softer spring .
Lighter or less experienced riders may need a softer spring .
Front End Does Not Respond to Small Bumps in Sweeping Turns -
The front suspension is too hard .
Rear End “ Kicks ” When Braking on Bumps -
Oil applied to air cleaner element .
The rear shock absorber rebound damping may be too low .
Increase the rebound damping .
The illustration may vary according to the type .
Rear Tire Does Not “ Hook Up ” Out of Corners ( Lack of Traction Coming Out of Turns ) -
The rear shock absorber may be too stiff .
Decrease the rear shock absorber spring preload .
Decrease the high speed / low speed compression damping .
Use a softer spring ( Lightweight Rider Only ) .
Fork Bottoms Off After a High-speed Jump ( may be due to improper riding posture ) -
The rebound damping is too soft or the spring is too hard .
Decrease the rear shock absorber spring preload
Decrease the compression damping .
Front and Rear Ends Bottom Off After a High-speed Jump ( harsh bottoming occurs once or twice per lap ) -
Use a harder fork spring .
The rear suspension is too soft .
K = 4.6 ( Standard )
Increase the rear shock absorber spring preload or use a harder spring .
Increase the rear shock absorber high speed compression damping or use a harder spring .
Check the front and rear suspension compatibility after making any adjustment .
Rear end feels soft at small jump -
Increase the spring preload up to maximum .
Increase the rear shock absorber low speed compression damping .
The engine and exhaust become very hot during operation .
Rear end feels soft at large jump -
48T ( Standard )
Increase the rear shock absorber high speed compression damping .
NHK * is 0.5 clip position richer than NHJ * .
Rear End Bottoms After 3 or 4 Successive Jumps -
Decrease the rebound damping .
The rear shock absorber behavior on this machine may mislead some riders .
The rear shock absorber bottoms ( due to full stroke ) when the spring and damping are overcome by the total weight of the machine and rider .
A bottoming sensation ( even though the machine is actually not bottoming ) may be caused by machine weight and the inability of the rider to overcome an overly stiff spring or excessive damping .
Keep the engine at least 1 meter away from buildings and other equipment during operation .
Observe the rear end jumps and try lowering the spring preload and damping if it does not approach bottoming .
Gearing
Selection of the Secondary Reduction Ratio ( Rear Sprocket )
Rear Sprocket Selection According to Course Conditions
small sprocket
Many curves or hills
large sprocket
Sandy or soft ground
If the course has long straight portions , the secondary reduction ratio should be reduced so that the machine speed can be increased .
If then the course has many corners or uphills or is wet , the secondary reduction ratio should be increased so that gear shifting and acceleration are smooth .
Keep flammable materials away , and do not place anything on the engine while it is running .
Since the speed must be changed depending on the ground condition on the day of the race , be sure to run through the circuit prior to a race and tune the machine accordingly .
If there is a long straight portion of the course on which the machine can be run at maximum speed , the machine should be set so that the maximum speed is developed toward the end of the straight course , but care should be taken not to over-rev the engine .
Since it is difficult to set the machine so it is best suited for all portions of the circuit , determine which circuit portions will have the greatest effect on lap time , and tune the machine to these portions .
Confirm your settings by recording lap times after each change .
In this way the machine will deliver best performance for the entire circuit .
Special Care According to Track Conditions
In dry , dusty conditions ( such a volcanic ash or fine powdery dust ) , special care must be given to keeping the air cleaner element clean .
When riding on wet , heavy clay , mud adheres to the tires and other parts of the vehicle .
The mud can add significantly to the weight of the vehicle and therefore reduce performance .
Take care to remove built-up mud from the tires and chassis after each ride , before drying occurs .
The engine works hardest in muddy conditions and the radiator can become clogged with mud .
Take care not to overheat the engine in these conditions .
The engine also works very hard when riding in deep sand .
In muddy or sandy conditions , increase chain slack as the chain and sprockets will be packed with mud or sand , which reduces chain slack .
L / H position carriage
Engine oil capacity :
Check chain and sprocket wear frequently when riding in mud or sand , since wear is increased in these conditions .
OPTIONAL PARTS
Main Jet
# 175 ( Standard )
Richer
NHJU ( Standard )
NCVR ( Standard )
Leaner
The length of time that gasoline can be left in your fuel tank and carburetor without causing functional problems will vary with such factors as gasoline blend , your storage temperatures , and whether the fuel tank is partially or completely filled .
NCY is 0.5 clip position richer than NCV .
13T ( Standard )
50T ( Standard )
Aluminum
K = 4.5
The air in a partially filled fuel tank promotes fuel deterioration .
Steel
Suspension Spring ( N · mm )
Disc plate
no holes ( for wet conditions )
Aluminum nipple wheel ( without tire )
Spoke nipple
Front and Rear
PRE-RACE CHECKS AND AFTER-RACE MAINTENANCE
Pre-race Checks -
Very warm storage temperatures accelerate fuel deterioration .
Front axle nut , or axle clamp nut tightness
Front fork clamp bolt tightness
Handlebar clamp bolt tightness
Throttle grip screw tightness
Throttle grip operation
Front and rear brake hose installation
Front and rear brake fluid level
Front and rear brake disc and caliper installation
Front and rear brake function
Fuel tank installation
Fuel deterioration problems may occur within 30 days from keeping the fuel in the fuel tank , or even less if the gasoline was not fresh when you filled the fuel tank .
All control cable routings
Engine mounting bolt torque
Engine sprocket installation
Shift pedal bolt torque
Engine oil level
Carburetor clamp screw tightness
Carburetor top cap tightness
UNI-TRAK ® lever rod bolt tightness
UNI-TRAK ® lever bolt torque
Rear shock absorber bolt torque
Swingarm pivot shaft nut torque
Rear axle nut torque
Rear sprocket bolt or nut torque
Rear brake pedal operation
Seat installation
Front and rear wheel spoke tightness
Front and rear tire air pressure
Front fork air pressure
Drive chain slack
Coolant level
Fuel system damage or engine performance problems resulting from neglected storage preparation are not covered under the Warranty .
Oil applied to air cleaner element
Maintenance After the First Race -
Clean the air cleaner element .
Adjust the drive chain slack .
Torque the rear sprocket nuts .
Tighten the spokes .
Check the front and rear tire air pressure .
Torque the front and rear axle nuts .
Torque the pivot shaft nut .
Torque the muffler and silencer bolts or nuts .
Torque the front and rear fender bolts or nuts .
Torque the fuel tank and seat bolts or nuts .
Check the front and rear brake function .
Check the steering play .
Check the coolant level .
Maintenance After Riding on a Dusty Course -
If dirt or dust gets into the engine , cylinder , piston and crankshaft bearings will be damaged .
After riding , inspect the crankshaft big end .
If the crankshaft big end is worn past the service limit , replace the crankshaft with a new one .
Maintenance After Riding in the Rain or on a Muddy Course -
Electric starter type :
Apply grease to swingarm and rear suspension pivots .
Inspect the drive chain and rear sprocket for wear .
Check the cylinder and crankshaft big end .
Grease the throttle grip and control cables .
Suggested Spare Parts -
Front and rear wheels
Shift pedal and brake pedal
Brake lever , clutch lever , and holders
Throttle and clutch cables
Front and rear fenders , side covers , and number plate
Op 70 Bearing Ladder Assembly BT No . 101015
Remove the battery and store it in a cool , dry place .
Radiator , radiator cover , and cooling hoses
Throttle grip assembly
Carburetor jets
Air cleaner element
Muffler , silencer , and related parts
Chain case
Front springs ( for suspension adjustment )
Rear shock absorber spring ( for suspension adjustment )
Rear sprockets with bolts / nuts and circlips
Electrical parts
Recharge it once a month .
Spark plugs
Clutch assembly and friction plates
Gaskets
Front and rear tires ( various compounds and tread patterns for different conditions )
Front fork assembly
Piston and piston rings
Tire wraps , bolts , nuts , O-rings , washers , snap rings , wire , adhesive tape , vinyl tap ( or duct tape ) , and # 400 to # 600 emery cloth
Before Storage
When the motorcycle is to be stored for any length of time , it should be prepared for storage as follows .
Fuel Caution
Run the engine for about five minutes to warm the oil , then stop it and drain the engine oil .
Install the oil drain plugs and fill in fresh engine oil .
Empty the fuel tank and the carburetor float bowl .
( Fuel will deteriorate if left for a long time . )
Always stop the engine and never smoke while handling fuel .
Remove the spark plug and spray fogging oil directly into the cylinder .
Kick the engine over slowly a few times to coat the cylinder wall .
Install the spark plug .
Consult your authorized dealer or local environmental waste agency for their proper disposal procedures .
Avoid getting oil on rubber parts and on the brakes .
Cover the engine to keep out dust .
Lift the motorcycle on a box or stand so that both wheels are raised off the ground .
Tie a plastic bag over the muffler to prevent moisture from entering .
Cover the motorcycle to keep dust and dirt away from it .
After Storage
Remove the plastic bag from the muffler .
ensure the spark plug is tight .
Check all the points listed in the Daily pre-ride checks section .
Perform a General Lubrication Procedure .
To protect our environment , properly discard used tires , engine oil , or other vehicle components that you might dispose of in the future .
Consult your authorized dealer or local environmental waste agency for the proper disposal procedure .
WIRING DIAGRAM
FULL
Temperature ° C
Altitude
Sea Level
Engine Stop Switch
Throttle Sensor
Gear Position Sensor
Crankshaft Sensor
Keep the engine level when transporting to reduce the possibility of fuel leakage .
Grand
C . D . I . Unit
Ignition Coil
Color Code
Black
Blue
Green
Light Green
Orange
Red
Turn the fuel valve lever to the OFF position ( see page ) .
Yellow
Neutral Switch
Stick Coil
SHOWA SS-05 or equivalent
- 362.5 mL
Fork cylinder unit
193 mL
C . Fuel Tank
Remove the spark plug cap .
Remove the engine bracket bolts and loosen the engine mounting bolt .
Remove the cylinder head cover bolts and take off the cylinder head cover .
A . Engine Bracket Bolts
C . Cylinder Head Cover Bolts
D . Cylinder Head Cover
A . Ignition Timing Mark
Top Mark
C . Groove on Alternator Cover
Do not mistake the top mark for ignition timing mark .
A . Measure the length
Fuel can damage paint and some types of plastic .
Using the top plug wrench ( special tool ) , remove the fork cylinder unit from the outer tube and slowly slide down the outer tube .
A . Top Plug Wrench ( P . N . 57001-1645 )
Fork Cylinder Unit
Pump the outer tube several times to discharge the fork oil .
Raise the outer tube and temporarily install the fork cylinder unit to the outer tube using the top plug wrench ( special tool ) .
C . Top Plug Wrench ( P . N . 57001-1645 )
Do not place the finger etc . While servicing .
Removing the locknut and pushing the piston rod thread into the cylinder unit will damage the oil seal .
Hold the piston rod tight enough so that the locknut does not damage the fork leg .
Remove the fork leg from the vise .
Be careful not to spill fuel when filling your fuel tank .
Loosen the fork cylinder unit with the top plug wrench ( special tool ) .
Remove the fork cylinder unit and fork spring from the outer tube .
C . Piston Rod
Holding the top plug wrench ( special tool ) with a vise , loosen the base valve assembly on the fork cylinder unit .
C . Fork Cylinder Unit
Remove the base valve assembly from the fork cylinder unit .
Drain the fork oil from the fork cylinder unit by pumping the piston rod several times .
Clean the threads of fork cylinder unit and base valve assembly .
A . Fork oil
A . Pump the Piston .
Why are we here ?
Slat Band Conveyor
Damage caused by spilled fuel is not covered under the Warranty .
With the piston rod fully stretched , check the oil level in the fork cylinder unit .
Oil Level
Measure the oil level using a gauge as shown in the figure .
A . 0.8 - 0.9 mm
If valve clearance is left unadjusted , wear will eventually cause the valves to remain partly open ; which lowers performance , burns the valves and valve seats , and may cause serious engine damage .
Inspection and adjustment should be carried out by an authorized dealer .
Replace the O-ring on the base valve assembly with new ones .
Apply specified fork oil to the O-ring and bushings on the base valve assembly .
Bushings
With the piston rod held immovable fully stretched , gently install the base valve assembly to the fork cylinder unit .
If there is difficulty in assembling the base valve , it may be because the oil level is too high .
Check the oil level in the fork cylinder unit .
Hold the top plug wrench ( special tool ) with a vise .
Holding the fork cylinder unit with the top plug wrench ( special tool ) , torque the base valve assembly .
Blow out the extra oil from the oil hole of the cylinder unit with the compressed air blow to the oil hole .
Wipe the oil off completely from the fork cylinder unit .
If you cannot use compressed air , remove the pressure relief screw on the fork cap . Up side down the fork damper for 10 minutes and drain the oil from the cylinder unit .
Reinstall and tighten the pressure relief screw .
Protect the piston rod end with a heavy cloth to prevent damage .
Pump the piston rod to full stroke by pushing down the fork cylinder unit .
Running the engine with a low oil level can cause engine damage .
Check the piston rod for smooth operation .
If the piston rod operation is not smooth , check the piston rod for bend or damage .
Hold the fork cylinder unit on level ground while piston rod is full stroked by your hand .
Release the piston rod then check the piston rod extend to maximum .
If the piston rod does not extend to maximum , bleed the cylinder unit again .
Wipe the oil off completely from the cylinder unit .
Compress the piston rod to 200 - 250 mm and hold the cylinder unit upright position for 10 minutes .
There should be no oil leak from the cylinder unit .
If oil leaks from the cylinder unit , replace the cylinder unit assembly .
Hold the cylinder unit on level ground and release the piston rod then check the piston rod extend to maximum .
This type of damage is not covered under the Warranty .
Tighten the locknut fully and measure 10 - 12 mm as shown .
Completely wipe off the fork oil from the spring and fork cylinder unit .
Insert above-mentioned parts into the fork .
Temporarily tighten the fork cylinder unit using the top plug wrench ( special tool ) .
Turn the locknut counterclockwise until it contacts with the adjuster assembly .
With the locknut held immovable using a wrench , tighten the adjuster assembly to the specified torque .
Locknut / Adjuster Assembly Tightening Torque
D . Torque Wrench
With the outer tube compressed by hands , remove the top plug wrench ( special tool ) .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent and torque the adjuster assembly to the specified torque .
There should be same length .
If the length at assembly is longer than at disassembly , check the adjuster assembly and locknut installation .
SOFT
( K = 4.2 N · mm )
356 mL
- 413 mL
HARD
362 mL
- 419 mL
Insert the front fork to the motorcycle .
Tighten the fork cylinder unit using the top plug wrench ( special tool ) to the specified torque .
Fork Cylinder Unit Tightening Torque
The torque of fork cylinder unit is specified to 34 N · m ( 3.5 kgf · m ) however , when you use the top plug wrench ( special tool ) , reduce the torque to 90 % of the specified value [ 31 N · m ( 3.1 kgf · m ) ] due to the distance between the center of the square hole , where the torque wrench is fitted , and that of the octagonal hole of the wrench .
Remove the upper clamp bolts and apply a non-permanent locking agent .
Fit the projection on the cap to the groove on the collar .
D . Caps
Before tightening the clamp bolts on the right fork leg , loosen the right front axle clamp bolts , and pump the forks up and down 4 or 5 times to allow the right fork leg to find a neutral position on the front axle .
A . Pump up and Down
Do not attempt to ride the motorcycle until a full brake lever is obtained by pumping the brake lever until the pads are against the disc . The brake will not function on the first application of the lever if this is not done .
Install the front fork protector .
Operating the engine without an air filter , or with a damaged air filter , will allow dirt to enter the engine , causing rapid engine wear .
Set the damping adjuster to the position recorded before removing the front fork .
High Speed Compression Damping Adjuster Settings .
* Number of turns counterclockwise usable range-19 clicks or more
Loosen the air cleaner duct clamp screw at the carburetor and remove the air cleaner duct clamp by raising the rear portion of the frame little .
Absorber Spring
K = 50 N · mm ( 5.1 kgf · m )
K = 52 N · mm * ( 5.3 kgf · m )
C . RESET Button
E . MODE Button
F . High Beam Indicator Light
The helmets could cause an accident by distracting the operator or interfering with normal vehicle operation .
After adjusting , ensure to tighten all four bolts securely .
ensure that there is a damper when tightening the bolts .
In addition to the above , at 1,000 km it is extremely important that the owner have the initial maintenance service performed by an authorized dealer .
Gloves and suitable footwear should also be used for added protection .
In wet conditions , rely more on the throttle to control vehicle speed and less on the front and rear brakes .
Turn the spring preload adjuster into the nut to increase spring force and out to decrease spring force .
The adjusting range is as follows .
Without oil filter replacement
Spring Preload Adjuster Adjusting Range
C . Nut
The standard setting positions of the spring preload adjuster and rebound damping force adjuster for an averagebuild rider of 68 kg with no passenger and no accessories are as follows :
Spring Preload Adjuster
Counterclockwise
Be careful not to damage the motorcycle parts when adjusting the spring preload .
This motorcycle is designed for competition only on a closed course .
TAMPERING WITH NOISE CONTROL SYSTEM PROHIBITED
Owners are warned that the law may prohibit :
The removal or rendering inoperative by any person other than for purposes of maintenance , repair or replacement , of any device or element of design incorporated into any new vehicle for the purpose of noise control prior to its sale or delivery to the ultimate purchaser or while it is in use ; and
the use of the vehicle after such device or element of design has been removed or rendered inoperative by any person .
DOHC , 4-cylinder , 4-stroke , liquid-cooled
Bore x Stroke
Check drive chain .
Model
Left to right , 1-2-3 -4
FI ( Fuel Injection )
Ignition Timing ( Electronically advanced )
2.5 L
6-speed , constant mesh , return shift
17 L
12 V 55 W 2 ( High beam ) / 12 V 55 W ( Low beam )
LED Tail / Brake Light
0.5 / 4.1 W
Even if one of LED ( Light Emitting Diode ) tail / brake light is not lit , consult with an authorized dealer .
Dry weight
Rebound Damping Force Adjuster ( Front Fork )
Air Cleaner Intake
Rider ' s Seat
Passenger ' s Seat
Compression Damping Force Adjuster
Chain Adjuster
Storage Compartment
Fuse Box
D . Red Zone
E . Digital Meter
Operating weight
F . Left Turn Signal Indicator Light
G . ABS Indicator Light ( only on ABS model )
H . High Beam Indicator Light
I . Neutral Indicator Light
K . Fuel Level Gauge
L . Warning Light
On the top side of the tachometer face is a portion called the “ red zone ” .
When the ignition key is turned to “ ON ” , the tachometer momentarily goes from the minimum to the maximum , then goes back from the maximum to the minimum reading to check its operation .
If the tachometer does not operate correctly , have it checked by an authorized dealer .
Digital Meter :
The digital meter displays the following functions : the speedometer , clock , trip meter , odometer , coolant temperature gauge , oil pressure warning symbol , and fuel injection warning symbol and immobilizer warning symbol .
Pushing the MODE button shifts the display in the digital meter through the following two modes : odometer , trip meter .
When the ignition key is turned to “ ON ” , all the LCD segments are displayed for three seconds , then , depending on the mode selected , the clock , gauge or meters operate normally .
A . Speedometer
Trip Meter / Odometer
C . Fuel Injection ( FI ) / Immobilizer ( ) / Oil Pressure Warning Symbol ( )
D . Clock
E . Coolant Temperature Gauge
Do not operate the vehicle with the digital meter displaying in the wrong unit ( km or mile ) of the digital meter .
The km / mile ( or ° C / ° F temperature ) display shifts by pushing the RESET button while the MODE button pushed in .
Remove any carbon deposits in the muffler by lightly tapping around it with a plastic hammer .
° C / ° F Display
The km / mile ( and ° C / ° F temperature ) display shifts as follows .
A . Km and ° C Display
Mile and ° F Display
C . Mile and ° C Display
D . Km and ° F Display
E . Push RESET Button with MODE Button in
The speedometer shows the speed of the vehicle in digital values .
To adjust hours and minutes :
Push the MODE button to display the odometer .
Clean any carbon deposits from each exhaust port before reassembly .
Push the RESET button for more than two seconds .
Push the RESET button .
Push the MODE button to advance the hours .
Push the MODE button to advance the minutes .
Push the MODE button .
Pushing the MODE button momentarily advances the hour or minute step by step .
Pushing and holding the button advances the hour or minute continuously .
Trip Meters -
The trip meter shows the distance in kilometers or miles traveled since it was last reset to zero .
Push the MODE button to display the trip meter .
5 × 8 mm self-tapping screw
Push the RESET button and hold it in .
After two second , the figure display turns to 0.0 , and then starts counting when the vehicle is operated .
When the trip meter reaches 999.9 while riding , the meter resets to 0.0 and continues counting .
Coolant Temperature Gauge -
The coolant temperature is displayed as follows .
If the coolant temperature is below 40 ° C , no temperature is displayed .
When the coolant temperature rises to above 40 ° C , the numerical value of the coolant temperature at the present state is displayed .
If the coolant temperature rises to above 115 ° C and below 120 ° C , the numerical value of the current coolant temperature starts flashing .
This warns the operator that the coolant temperature is high .
If the coolant temperature rises to above 120 ° C , “ HI ” is displayed and starts flashing .
This warns the operator that the coolant temperature is too high ; stop the engine and check the coolant level in the reserve tank after the engine cools down .
Do not let the engine continue running when the coolant temperature shows “ HI ” .
Prolonged engine operation will result in severe engine damage from overheating .
Fuel Gauge :
When the key is turned to “ OFF ” , the FI indicator light will start flashing indicating that the immobilizer system is enabled .
After 24 hours have passed , the FI indicator light will stop flashing , however the immobilizer system is still enabled .
FI indicator light flashes if the improperly coded key is used , or any incorrect communication between antenna and key is occurred .
However , when the properly coded key can be used , or the communication is clear , the indicator light does not flash .
FI indicator light flashing mode can be set to either on or off .
Push and hold the MODE and RESET buttons simultaneously for more than two seconds , within twenty seconds after turning the ignition key to the “ OFF ” position , then the FI indicator light will not flash .
Factory Setting
When the battery is connected , FI indicator light defaults to flashing mode .
When the battery voltage is low ( below 12 V ) , FI indicator light flashing automatically goes off to prevent excessive battery discharge .
If the master key is lost , registering new codes for replacement user keys into the electronic control unit is impossible .
To make additional user keys , take the vehicle along with the master key and all user keys to an authorized dealer to have them re-registered .
Up to five user keys can be registered with the immobilizer system at one time .
Do not put two keys of any immobilizer system on the same key ring .
Do not submerge any key in water .
Do not expose any key to excessively high temperature .
Do not place any key close to magnets .
Do not place heavy item on any key .
Do not grind any key or alter its shape .
Do not disassemble the plastic part of any key .
Do not drop any key and / or apply shocks to it .
If a user-key is lost , re-registry at dealer is securely required to prevent the possibility of theft .
If the master key is lost , an authorized dealer will have to replace the fault-teller , order a new master key , and register the user keys .
A . Master key ( red )
User-keys ( black )
Master key : The master key can never be duplicated .
User-keys : You can register maximum 5 user-keys at one time .
Amplifier : This part is located behind the front fairing .
Check motor connections .
The minimum recommended age for this ATV model is 10 . For safety , children under age 10 should never operate this ATV .
The amplifier amplifies signals from the antenna and FT .
Antenna coil : This part is located near the ignition switch key slot .
A . Amplifier
Antenna Coil
If an improperly coded key is used or any incorrect communication between FT and key is occurred , the engine does not start and FI indicator light flashes .
A properly coded key must be used or the communication should be clear for the engine to start .
When the key is turned to “ OFF , ” the FI indicator light will start flashing indicating that the immobilizer system is enabled .
If the master key is lost , registering new user key codes is impossible .
If all keys are lost , the FT must be replaced .
EC Directive Compliance
This immobilizer system complies with the R & TTE ( Radio equipment and telecommunications terminal equipment and the mutual recognition of their conformity ) Directive .
If you leave the P ( Park ) position on for a long time , the battery may become totally discharged .
Once the ignition key is turned to “ OFF ” position and when turning the key to “ ON ” position again , turn the ignition key to “ ON ” position after several seconds passed .
When turning the ignition key from “ OFF ” position to “ ON ” position immediately , the immobilizer system in this motorcycle may not correctly recognize the ignition key .
Push the lever forward and turn the adjuster to align the number with the mark on the lever holder .
The following octane rating gasoline is recommended in the fuel tank .
Your Kawasaki engine is designed to use only unleaded gasoline with a minimum octane rating of RON 91 .
( For further information , refer to the “ Catalytic Converter ” section in the “ How to Ride the Motorcycle ” chapter ) .
The octane rating of a gasoline is a measure of its resistance to detonation or “ knocking ” .
Rider ' s Seat Removal
How much weight you put on your ATV , and how you load it , are important to your safety .
Remove the rider ' s seat by inserting the ignition key into the seat lock and turning it clockwise .
The muffler surface is hot once the engine has been started .
When operating the seat lock be careful not to touch the muffler or you may be burned .
A . Seat Lock
Passenger ' s Seat Removal
Pull the seat lock cable .
A . Seat Lock Cable
Install the rider ' s and passenger ' s seats in the reverse order of removal .
Passenger ' s Seat -
Place the tab on the rear of the passenger ' s seat into the slot in the frame .
You should be aware of the following information .
Insert the left and right projections at the front of the passenger ' s seat into the left and right holes on the frame .
A . Passenger ' s Seat
Tab
C . Slot
E . Projection
F . Holes
Push down the front part of the passenger ' s seat until the lock clicks .
Rider ' s Seat -
Insert the tab on the front of the rider ' s seat into the slot in the frame .
Insert the left and right projection at the front of the rider ' s seat into the left and right holes on the frame .
Push down the rear part of the rider ' s seat until the lock clicks .
A . Rider ' s Seat
D . Projections
E . Insert
Pull up the front and rear ends of the passenger ' s and rider ' s seats to ensure they are securely locked .
Helmet Hooks
Helmets can be secured to the motorcycle using the helmet hooks located under the passenger ' s seat .
A . Helmet Hooks
Tying Hooks
When tying up light loads to the seat , use the tying hooks left and right below the passenger ' s seat .
Practice with the throttle limiter adjusted as delivered ( approximately 24 km / h ( 15 mph ) top speed ) until you are confident in shifting gears , braking , and making turns .
A . Tying Hooks
Tool Kit
The tool kit is located under the seat .
Keep the tool kit in the original place .
After the meter operation check , leaving the throttle completely closed , push the starter button .
Remove the rider ' s and passenger ' s seats .
ensure the ignition key is turned to OFF ” .
Remove the Cover .
A . Cover
A . Seat Holder Bracket
Pull up the battery slightly .
C . Footpeg Mounting Bolt
Connect another jumper cable from the negative ( - ) terminal of the booster battery to your motorcycle footpeg mounting bolt or other unpained metal surface .
Do not reverse polarity by connecting positive ( + ) to negative ( - ) , or a battery explosion and serious damage to the electrical system may occur .
Tighten the bolts securely .
Seat Holder Bracket Bolts
When the headlight is on high beam , two headlight beams are lit , and on low beam , the one side of the headlight is lit .
ABS is designed to help prevent the wheels from locking up when the brakes are applied hard while running straight .
ABS cannot compensate for adverse road conditions , misjudgment or improper application of brakes .
ABS indicator light may come on under motorcycle riding condition .
Remove the screw ( ) and stay ( ) .
( ex .
The front or rear wheel races . )
In this case , first turn the ignition key to “ OFF ” , and then back to “ ON ” .
ABS indicator light goes off by this operation , but if ABS indicator light remains lit after the motorcycle runs at the speed of approx . 6 km / h or below , you should have the ABS checked by an authorized dealer .
If the indicator light shows any of the following , a fault or faults may have occurred in the ABS .
Uni-trak rocker arm operation - inspect
Uni-trak tie rclip operation - inspect
Steering system :
Electrical system :
D . Lower Level Line
Loosen the lock nut ( ) .
If the engine oil gets extremely low or if the oil pump does not function properly or oil passages are clogged , the warning light in the meter instrument and oil pressure warning symbol in the digital meter will light .
If they stays on while the engine running above the idle speed , stop the engine immediately and find the cause .
A . Oil Pressure Warning Symbol
Warning Light
3.3 L
3.8 L
Check the coolant level each day before riding the motorcycle , also in accordance with the periodic maintenance chart and replenish coolant if the level is low .
If coolant containing corrosion and rust inhibitor chemicals are not used , over a period of time , the cooling system accumulates rust and scale in the water jacket and radiator .
Position the motorcycle so that it is perpendicular to the ground .
Check the coolant level through the coolant level gauge on the reserve tank located on the rear right side of the rider ' s seat .
Turn the throttle limiter screw ( ) clockwise to reduce throttle lever movement or counterclockwise to increase throttle lever movement .
The coolant level should be between the F ( Full ) and L ( Low ) level lines .
C . Reserve Tank
Remove the sub right side cover .
A . Sub Right Side Cover
Remove the main right side cover .
A . Main Right Side Cover
Remove the right side rear cowling .
C . Right Side Rear Cowling
The right side rear cowling uses the quick rivets .
The quick rivets can be removed by pushing the central pin into the quick rivets , and when installing them , pull the central pin fully up first , and then push into the central pin after inserting them .
Check & Clean
Hold the throttle limiter screw in place and tighten the lock nut .
Quick Rivet Removal
A . Quick Rivet
Central Pin
C . Push in .
Quick Rivet Installation
C . Pull up fully .
D . Push in .
Unhook the hook on the cover , pull out the right side rear cowling to detauch the projections .
A . Hook
Right Side Rear Cowling
Reinstall the stay and screw .
C . Projections
A . Reserve Tank Cap
Full ( F ) Level Line
Install the reserve tank cap .
Install the right side rear cowling .
When installing the right side rear cowling , hook the hook of the cowling first , and then insert the projections on the cowling to the each holes .
Plug Gap :
Tightening Torque :
Exhaust Device
This motorcycle is equipped with a exhaust device system .
This system controls the valve in the exhaust pipe and produces stable engine power at low and middle engine speed .
This exhaust device is controlled by the FT , and adjustment or maintenance should be done by an authorized dealer .
A . Exhaust Device Cables
Do not adjust the exhaust device system by yourself .
The maladjustment will cause the poor engine performance and engine damage .
This motorcycle ' s air cleaner element consists of a wet paper filter , which cannot be cleaned .
The air cleaner element must be replaced in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
In dusty , rainy , or muddy conditions , the air cleaner element should be serviced more frequently than the recommended interval .
Check the throttle grip play each day before riding the motorcycle , and in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart , and adjust it if necessary .
Turn out the decelerator cable adjuster until it is no play when the throttle grip is completely closed .
To restore the original setting ( approximately 24 km / h ( 15 mph ) top speed ) follow the procedure below :
A . Decelerator Cable
Accelerator Cable
D . Locknuts
If the throttle cables cannot be adjusted with the adjuster at the upper of the throttle cable , further adjustment of the throttle cables should be done by an authorized dealer .
If handlebar movement changes the idle speed , the throttle cables may be improperly adjusted or in correctly routed , or they may be damaged .
Be sure to correct any of these conditions before idling .
Operation with improperly adjusted , incorrectly routed , or damaged cables could result in an unsafe riding condition .
- 1,150 r / min ( rpm )
Due to friction plate wear and clutch cable stretch over a long period of use , the clutch operation should be checked each day before riding the motorcycle , and must be adjusted in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
Turn the adjuster so that the clutch lever will have the proper play .
Reinstall the air intake restrictor .
C . Chain Cover
If the chain is especially dirty , clean it using diesel oil or kerosine and then apply oil as described above .
For each front and rear disc brake caliper , if the thickness of either pad linning is less than 1 mm , replace both pads in the caliper as a set .
Use DOT4 rated heavy-duty brake fluid only .
With the brake fluid reservoirs held horizontal , the brake fluid level must be kept between the upper and lower level lines .
First , tighten until slight resistance is felt indicating that the cap is seated on the reservoir body ; tighten the cap an additional 1 / 6 turn while holding the brake fluid reservoir body .
So there are no parts that require adjustment on the front or rear brakes .
To adjust the rear brake light switch , move the switch up or down by turning the adjusting nut .
To avoid damaging the electrical connections inside the switch , be sure that the switch body does not turn during adjustment .
Holding the brake lever , pump the front fork up and down several times to inspect smooth stroke .
Adjust the throttle lever freeplay to the specified range ( 3-8 mm ( 0.1 -0 . 3 in ) ) .
Weaker damping force is for comfortable riding , but it should be increased for high speed riding or riding on rough roads .
Do not force to turn the rebound damping force adjuster from the fully seated position , as the adjusting mechanism may be damaged .
Turn the rebound damping force adjuster all the way into the front fork with a screwdriver .
Press down on the seat several times to inspect the stroke .
Before making any adjustments , however , read the following procedures :
Do not force to turn the rebound and compression damping force adjuster from the fully seated position or the adjusting mechanism may be damaged .
The spring adjusting nut on the rear shock absorber can be adjusted .
If the spring action feels too soft or too stiff , have it adjusted by an authorized dealer .
Turn the rebound damping force adjuster all the way clockwise with a screwdriver to make the damping force greatest .
Turn the adjuster counterclockwise to decrease damping force .
Remove the screw and stay .
2 1 / 4 turns out
Mishandling can cause on explosion .
Size : 190 / 50ZR17 M / C ( 73 W )
Remove the rider ' s and passenger ' s seat .
Remove the cover .
Disconnect the wire from the battery , first from the ( - ) terminal and then the ( + ) terminal .
Take the battery .
Place the battery in the original place .
Loosen the lock nut and turn it until it rests against the head of the throttle limiter screw .
Connect the red capped wire to the ( + ) terminal , and then connect the black capped wire to the ( - ) terminal .
Installing the ( - ) cable to the ( + ) terminal of the battery or the ( + ) cable to the ( - ) terminal of the battery can seriously damaged the electrical system .
Cover the terminals with its protective cap .
Seat Holder Bracket Bolts :
Turn the horizontal adjuster in or out until the beam points straight ahead .
Turn the vertical adjuster in or out to adjust the headlight vertically .
A . Vertical Adjust
When handling the quartz-halogen bulbs , never touch the glass portion with bare hands .
Always use a clean cloth .
Oil contamination from hands or dirty rags can reduce bulb life or cause the bulb to explode .
Gently press the throttle lever to remove the freeplay in the cable .
Main and other fuses are arranged in the fuse box located under the passenger ' s seat .
Motorcycle Owner ' s Manual
Quick Reference Guide
This Quick Reference Guide will assist you in finding the information you ' re looking for .
General Information
Maintenance and Adjustment
Troubleshooting Guide
Storage
While holding the throttle lever in this position , turn the throttle limiter screw clockwise until you feel it contact the throttle lever .
A Table of Contents is included after the Foreword .
Whenever you see the symbols shown below , heed their instructions !
Always follow safe operating and maintenance practices .
@ WARNING
CAUTION
This caution symbol identifies special instrucions or procedures which , if not strictly observed , could result in damage to or destruction of equipment .
IMPORTANT
Off-road motorcycle riding is a wonderful sport , and we hope you will enjoy it to the fullest .
However , if improperly conducted , this sport has the potential to cause environmental problems as well as conflicts with other people .
Clean Slat Bands
Release the throttle lever and turn the throttle limiter screw counterclockwise 3 / 4 turn .
Responsible use of your off-road motorcycle will ensure that these problems and conflicts do not occur .
TO PROTECT THE FUTURE OF YOUR SPORT , ensure YOU USE YOUR BIKE LEGALLY , SHOW CONCERN FOR THE ENVIRONMENT , AND RESPECT THE RIGHTS OF OTHER PEOPLE .
THIS VEHICLE IS AN OFF-ROAD VEHICLE ONLY AND WAS NOT MANUFACTURED FOR USE ON PUBLIC STREETS , ROADS , OR HIGHWAYS .
USE YOUR BIKE LEGALLY .
RESPECT THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE RIGHTS OF OTHER PEOPLE .
IMPORTANT NOTE TO PARENTS ABOUT SAFE RIDING
Your youngster ' s safety will depend on your commitment to always provide a safe riding environment and a properly maintained vehicle .
As with any moving vehicle there are possible safety risks ; be sure to heed these precautions .
Always equip your child with suitable protective gear and riding apparel .
Reinstall the stay and tighten the screw .
Be sure he or she always wears a helmet , over-the-ankle footwear or sturdy boots , eye protection , gloves , long pants , and a long-sleeved shirt while riding .
Never allow your child to carry a passenger .
This motorcycle is designed for an OPERATOR ONLY .
This motorcycle is designed for off-road riding and should never be operated on public roads or paved surfaces .
This motorcycle was not designed for hard riding such as motocross .
Always obey local off-road riding laws and regulations .
Obtain permission to ride on private property .
You , the parent ( and most likely " riding instructor / mechanic " as well ) , must be familiar with motorcycle controls and maintenance requirements plus riding techniques .
Read and understand the owner ' s manual provided with the
motorcycle .
Review all Instructions and warnings with your child .
You must determine your child ' s readiness to ride this off-road motorcycle .
Your child should already be familiar with motorcycle controls ( location and function ) and basic riding techniques .
Your child should also be physically large enough , and strong enough to be able to straddle the motorcycle and hold it up , plus be able to pick it up it if is on its side .
Your child ' s safety depends in part on the good mechanical condition of the motorcycle .
Be sure to follow the maintenance and adjustment requirements contained in the Periodic Maintenance Chart , Daily Pre-ride Inspection , and After-Race Check Points .
Be sure your child understands the importance of checking all items thoroughly before riding the motorcycle .
Also , familiarity with the motorcycle is important should a problem occur far from help .
Do not allow your child to ride unsupervised .
He or she should always ride in the company of an experienced adult .
For throttle limiter adjustment , see page .
Encourage your child not to ride beyond his or her skill lever or faster than conditions safely allow .
Have them practice advanced riding maneuvers under controlled conditions .
Tell someone where you and your child are planning to ride and when you intend to return .
Discuss the ride with your child before you leave so he or she will know in advance what riding techniques may be necessary to negotiate the terrain safely .
If you are not familiar with the area , lead the way and reduce your speed .
This motorcycle is designed for a rider weighting less than 55 kg ( 121 pounds ) .
Exceeding this limit could
PLEASE DO NOT TAMPER WITH NOISE CONTROL SYSTEM
To minimize the noise emissions from this product , Kawasaki has equipped it with effective intake and exhaust silencing systems .
They are designed to give optimum performance while maintaining a low noise level .
Please do not remove these systems , or alter them in any way which results in an increase in noise level .
We wish to thank you for choosing this tine Kawasaki Motorcycle .
It is the end product of Kawasaki ' s advanced engineering , exhaustive testing , and continuous striving for superior reliability , safety , and performance .
By giving your motorcycle the proper care and maintenance outlined in this manual , you will be helping to ensure it a long , trouble-free life .
Before starting to ride your motorcycle , please read this manual thoroughly in order to know your motorcycle ' s capabilities , its limitations , and above all , how to operate it safety .
Due to improvements in design and performance during production , in some cases there may be minor discrepancies between the actual vehicle and the illustrations and text in this manual .
June 2006
Air screw ( ) is available to compensate for air-fuel mixture .
SPECIFICATIONS 10
Fuel 14
Throttle Limiting Screw 16
Engine Stop Switch 18
Daily Pre-Ride Checks 23
Break-In 25
Spark Arrester
Brake Wear Inspection :
Front Brake :
Rear Brake :
Steering 55
Rear Suspension
Tires :
Spokes and Rims :
Rim Runout :
Torques of Nuts and Bolts 61
Lubrication 66
1,555 mm ( 61.22 in . )
This ATV is not designed to carry cargo .
660 mm ( 25.98 in . )
955 mm ( 37.60 in . )
1,065 mm ( 41.93 in . )
190 mm ( 7.48 in . )
64 kg ( 141 Ib )
3.8 L ( 1.0 US gal )
4-stroke , single cylinder , SOHC , air-cooled
53.0 x 50.6 mm ( 2.09 x 1.99 in . )
111 cm3 ( 3.75 cu in .
9.5 : 1
Also , be sure to follow the loading guidelines and weight limit ( page ) .
Valve timing :
Intake :
Open
Close
Exhaust :
Close45 º ATDC
1.1 L ( 1.2 US qt )
Kick
10 º BTDC @ 1,300 r / min ( rpm ) – 31 º BTDC @ 4,000 r / min ( rpm )
Transmission
Centrifugal & Wet , multi disc
Driving system
Gear ratio :
2.357 ( 33 / 14 )
Check for excessive noise
Whenever the ATV is to be operated far from service facilities or available transportation , we recommend that you carry a tyre pump and a repair kit .
Overall drive ratio
10.848 ( Top Gear )
Backbone
45 º to either side
25.5 º
54 mm ( 2.13 in )
Tire size :
3.00 -12 4PR CHENG SHIN C803
12 x 1.60
Telescopic fork
Front suspension stroke
110 mm ( 4.33 in . )
107 mm ( 4.21 in . )
Front fork oil ( each )
SHOWA SS8 or SAE 10W-20
160-166 mL ( 5.4 ~ 5.6 US oz )
Front fork oil level
90 mm ( 3.5 in . )
( Compressed , spring removed )
Drum brake
An open-face helmet offers some protection , but a full-face helmet offers more .
Specifications subject to change without notice and may not apply to every country .
Fuel Tank Ca
Fuel Tap Lever
Throttle Limiting Screw ( see P . 16 )
Brake Cable
Right Shroud
Brake Panel
Brake Cam Lever
Left Shroud
Always wear a face shield or goggles to protect your eyes and help your vision .
Torque Rod
Oil Filter Cap
Clutch Release Adjusting Screw
Engine Guard
Chain Slipper
Forgetting and leaving the side stand down and riding away could cause an accident .
The required of fuel is specified under " Fuel Requirements .
The capacity of the fuel tank is 3.8 L ( 1.0 US gal ) .
To open the fuel tank cap , pull out the breather hose from the hole in the number plate and turn the tank cap counterclockwise .
Research Octane Number ( RON ) 91
The octane rating of a gasoline is a measure of its resistance to detonation or " knocking . "
If “ knocking ” or “ pinging ” occurs , try a different brand of gasoline or higher octane grade .
The fuel tap has three positions :
OFF , ON , and RES ( reserve ) .
For normal operation , turn the fuel tap lever to the ON position .
If the fuel runs out with the tap in the ON position , the last 0.5 L ( 0.13 US gal ) of fuel can be used by turning the tap lever to the RES position .
D . RES Position
Turn the fuel tap lever to the OFF position when the fuel tank is removed for maintenance and adjustments or the motorcycle is stored for a long time .
With the engine stop switch in the RUN position and the transmission in neutral , the engine can be started .
Since riding distance is limited when on RES , refuel at the earliest opportunity .
Make certain that the fuel tap lever is turned to ON ( not RES ) , after filling up the fuel tank .
Practice operating the fuel tap with the motorcycle stopped .
To prevent an accident you should be able to operate the fuel tap while riding without taking your eyes off the track .
Be careful not to touch the hot engine while operating the fuel tap .
A screw-type throttle limiting screw can be equipped to this motorcycle to decrease the maximum engine power for a novice rider .
The limiting screws function by restricting the turning degree of the throttle grip so that it opens to either 3 / 8 or 1 / 2 of full throttle .
Throttle Limiting Screw
Kawasaki recommends raising the level of the throttle limiting screw step-by-step as follows :
The 3 / 8 degree screw can be used for the beginning rider , 1 / 2 degree screw for the semi-skilled rider , and no throttle limiting screw for riders with more advanced skills .
Changing the position of the throttle limiting screw should only be done at the parents ’ discretion .
The longer screw is the 3 / 8 degree limiter , the short screw is the 1 / 2 degree limiter .
A . 318 Degree Screw 47 mm ( 1.9 in . )
( Longer Limiting screw )
1 / 2 Degree Screw 42 mm ( 1.7 in . )
( Short Limiting screw )
Check that the throttle grip has 2 - 3 mm ( 0.08 0.12 in . ) of play and turns smoothly ( refer to the Throttle
Cable section in Maintenance and Adjustment chapter ) .
Remove the blank screw and locknut installed to the housing .
Squeeze the front and rear brake levers and step on the rear brake pedal to check that the controls operate normally .
Install the locknut of the blank screw to the throttle limiting screw .
Screw the throttle limiting screw fully into the throttle housing and tighten the locknut .
A . Throttle Limiting Screw
Use only the Kawasaki screws supplied with the motorcycle .
Substituting non standard screws can damage the throttle housing .
Store the uninstalled throttle limiting screw in a location where they will not be lost .
Do not operate the motorcycle without inserting the throttle limiting screw or blank screw into the throttle housing .
This is to keep dirt or water from entering the throttle housing .
The engine stop switch is located on the left side of the handlebar .
Check for proper freeplay ( pages ) .
The engine stop switch must be in the RUN position ( RUN button pushed in . ) for the motorcycle to operate .
For ordinary engine stoppage and , if some emergency requires stopping the engine , set the engine stop switch to the OFF position ( OFF button pushed in . ) .
Shift the transmission into neutral by pushing the shift pedal down until the motorcycle rolls freely .
This motorcycle is equipped with a gear position switch that prevents the engine from starting when the transmission is not in neutral .
Turn the fuel tap lever to the ON position
Check that the engine stop switch is in the RUN position ( RUN switch pushed in . ) .
A . RUN Button
If the engine is cold , pull out the choke knob .
Once the engine starts , wait until the engine is thoroughly warmed up , and then push in the choke knob .
When the engine is already warm or on a hot days , open the throttle part way instead of using the choke knob .
If the engine is flooded , kick it over with the throttle fully open until it starts
Open the throttle slowly .
WARNING
When changing gears raise or press firmly on the shift pedal to ensure proper shifting .
Careless , incomplete shifting can cause the transmission to jump out of gear and lead to engine damage
Shift the transmission into neutral position .
Slat Band Conveyor Drive
With the throttle 1 / 8-1 / 4 open , press the start button ( ) .
After racing the engine slightly , close the throttle completely and push the engine stop switch to the OFF position ( OFF button pushed in . ) .
OFF Button
Engine oil level correct .
No leakage .
Spark Plug Tighten to correct torque .
Carburetor Adjusted properly .
Idle speed :
1 250 - 1 350 r / min ( rpm )
Air Cleaner Clean , properly installed .
( If the throttle limiter is adjusted as delivered , open the throttle fully . )
Apply oil to air cleaner element .
Muffler Not damaged .
Tires Check overall condition ; wear , cuts and other damage .
Check tire air pressure .
Tighten the air valve cap securely .
Check for any loose spokes .
If necessary , torque .
Check overall condition and chain slack with pushed out from the hollow of the chain guard is 0 - 5 mm ( 0 0.2 in ) .
Lubricate the drive chain .
If necessary , adjust .
Brakes Front and rear brakes function properly .
Brake lever play is 4 - 5 mm ( 0.16 - 0.20 in ) :
Brake pedal travel is 20 - 30 mm ( 0.8 - 0.12 in ) .
Check brake lining wear .
Functions properly , returns smoothly .
Action is smooth but not loose from lock to lock .
No binding by control cables .
Mounted securely , no fuel leakage .
Functions properly .
Continue warming up the engine until it runs smoothly and responds to the throttle , when the choke lever down all the way to fully OFF .
Tighten any loose bolts and nuts .
The first one hour that the motorcycle is ridden is designed as the break-in period .
If the motorcycle is not used carefully during this period , you may very well end up with a " broken down " instead of a " broken in " motorcycle after the long use .
Avoid the quick acceleration or starting and drive prudently for the first one hour of operation .
Let the car cool completely .
The car is ready for regular operation after this procedure is carried out .
Initial
See page
5 hours
( 1 month )
100 hours ( 12 months )
Engine oil-change
Spark plug-clean , gap
Clutch-check
( K ) Valve clearance-check
Throttle grip play-check
( K ) Fuel tap-clean
Spark arrester-clean
Engine sprocket-check
( K ) Fuel hose connections-check
Push the choke lever down all the way to fully OFF .
CHASSIS
( K ) Brake camshaft-grease
( K ) Brake cable-check
Every year
Spoke tightness and rim runout-check
Drive chain wear-check
( K ) Front fork-inspect / clean
Chain slipper-check
( K ) Front fork oil-check
Nuts , bolts , fasteners-check
Steering play-check
Rear sprocket-check
Side stand-check
( K ) Wheel bearing-check
( K ) Swingarm pivots-check
( K ) Rear shock absorber-check
Replace , add , adjust or torque if necessary .
Should be serviced by referring to the Service Manual or an authorized Kawasaki deal
When speed increases , release the throttle and shift to 2nd gear by raising the shift lever one full stroke .
In order for the engine , transmission , and clutch to function properly , maintain the engine oil at the proper level , and change the oil and replace oil filter in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
If the motorcycle has just been used , wait several minutes for all the oil to settle .
Check the engine oil level through the oil level gauge in the lower right side of the engine .
The oil should come up between the maximum and minimum .
C . Minimum
Maximum
If the oil level is too low , add oil to reach the correct level .
Warm up the engine thoroughly so that the oil will pick up any sediment and drain easily
The spark plug should be taken out in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart for cleaning , inspection , and resetting of the plug gap .
Repeat this sequence to progressively upshift to 3rd and 4th ( top ) gear .
If incorrect , adjust the gap to the specified value by bending the outer electrode
Replace the element with a new one .
A . Element
Put the spring and element into the oil filter cap .
Install the oil filter cap along with the 0-ring and tighten its bolts to the specified torque .
Oil Filter Cap Tightening Torque
5.2 N • m ( 0.53 kgf • m , 46 in • lb )
Check for O-ring damage .
If necessary , replace it with a new one .
Several times over
When installing the oil filter cap , ensure the 0-ring is in place .
After the oil has completely drained out , install the engine oil drain plug with its gasket , and tighten it to the specified torque .
Engine Oil Drain Plug Tightening Torque
29 N • m ( 30 kgf-m , 22 ft-lb )
Replace the damaged gasket with a new one .
Fill the engine up to the upper level with a good quality motor oil specified in the table .
Check the oil level and for oil leakage ( refer to Oil Level Inspection ) .
: API SE , SF or SG
API SH , SJ or SL with JASO MA Viscosity
Check
Replace the slider when the depth of the grooves reaches the limit .
: 0.9 L ( 1.0 US qt )
: 1.0 L ( 1.1 US qt )
: 1.1 L ( 1.2 US qt )
Depending on the atmospheric temperature of your riding area , the engine oil viscosity should be changed according to the following chart :
Gap
If the plug is oily or has carbon built up on it , clean it ( preferably with a sand-blaster ) and then clean off any abrasive particles .
The plug may also be cleaned using a high-flash point solvent and a wire brush or other suitable tool .
When reinstalling the spark plug , torque it to the specification .
Service limit :
13 N • m ( 1.3 kgf . m , 113 in . lb )
Fit the plug cap securely onto the spark plug , and pull the cap lightly to ensure that it is properly installed
A . Plug Cap
A clogged air cleaner may allow dirt and dust to enter the engine causing it to wear excessively or to become damaged .
Element Removal
Remove the left shroud bolts and take out the left shroud
A . Left Shroud
Unscrew the air cleaner cover screws and remove the air cleaner cov
A . Air Cleaner Cover
Screws
Take out the element .
Element
Check inside the intake tract for dirt .
If dirty , clean the intake tract thoroughly .
You may also need to replace the air cleaner element and seal the air cleaner housing and intake tract .
Wipe out the following areas with a clean damp towel :
the wire screen inside the air cleaner cover , the inside of the air cleaner housing , and the inside of the air cleaner cover .
We also recommend that you take or observe the course with your youngster .
A . Wire Screen
Air Cleaner Cover
Element installation is performed in the reverse order of removal .
Clean the element in a bath of a high-flash point solvent .
Do not wring the element or blow it dry ; the element can be damaged .
To avoid damaging it , do not twist , wring or blow the element dry .
After cleaning , saturate the element with a high-quality foam-air-filter -oil .
Squeeze out the excess oil , then wrap the element in a clean rag and squeeze it as dry as possible .
Be careful not to tear the element .
Even if a youngster takes a certified training course , it ' s up to you to ensure your youngster ' s safety .
A . Clean Rag
To avoid a fire or explosion , do not use gasoline or a low-flash point solvent to clean the element .
Inspect the element for damage such as tears , hardening , or shrinkage .
Apply grease to all mating surfaces and to the screw hole in the air cleaner housing .
A . Grease
Install the air cleaner element in the housing , and ensure the sealing surface of the element is seated properly .
Install the air cleaner cover and left shroud .
Element Oil Draining
Inspect the transparent plug under the air cleaner housing to see if any oil has run down from the air cleaner housing .
Remember , learning to ride an ATV is a gradual step-by-step process .
If there is any oil in the plug , remove the plug and drain the oil .
Be sure to install the plug to the air cleaner housing bottom after draining .
The throttle grip controls the throttle valve .
On the other hand , if the throttle grip has no play , the throttle will be hard to control , and the idle speed will be erratic .
Check the throttle grip play in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart , and adjust the play if necessary .
Check that the throttle grip turns smoothly and there is 2 3 mm ( 0.08 0.12 in . ) throttle grip play when lightly turning the throttle grip back and forth .
2 ~ 3mm ( 0.08 ~ 0.12 in . )
Pull the rubber boot off the upper end of the throttle cable .
Loosen the locknut on the upper end of the throttle cable and turn the adjuster to obtain the specified play
It takes time , patience and practice .
Reinstall the rubber boot .
If the free play cannot be set with the adjuster on the upper end of the throttle cable , pull the rubber boot off the top of the carburetor and make the necessary free play adjustment with the adjuster on the lower end of the cable .
Then , tighten the locknut and reinstall the rubber boot .
Check if the throttle grip moves smoothly from full open to close , and the throttle closes quickly and completely in all steering positions by the return spring .
If not , check the throttle cable routing , grip free play , and cable damage .
Then lubricate the throttle cable .
Operation with an improperly adjusted , incorrectly routed , or damaged cable could result in an unsafe riding conditions before riding .
The following procedure covers the idling adjustment , which should be performed whenever the idle speed is disturbed .
Turn in the air screw fully but not lightly , and then back it out 1-1 / 4 turns .
This sets the low speed mixture .
Air Screw
Never run the motorcycle in a closed area , such as a garage .
Exhaust gases contain carbon monoxide ; a colorless , odorless , poisonous gas .
To avoid a serious burn , never touch a hot engine or exhaust pipe during idling adjustment .
Adjust the idling speed to 1,250 - 1,350 r / min ( rpm ) by turning the idling adjusting screw .
Open and close the throttle a few times to ensure that the idling speed does not change .
If handlebar movement changes the idling speed , the throttle cable may be improperly adjusted or incorrectly routed , or it may be damaged .
Drive Chain
A clutch that does not properly disengage will cause shifting difficulty and possible transmission damage the clutch must be adjusted in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
To avoid a serious burn , never touch a hot engine or exhaust pipe during clutch adjustment .
Loosen the locknut .
Turn the clutch release adjusting screw counterclockwise until it becomes hard to turn , and then back it out a quarter turn .
A . Adjusting Screw
Tighten the locknut without changing the adjusting screw position .
Start the engine and check the clutch by operating the shift pedal .
This motorcycle is equipped with a spark arrester approved for off-road use by the U . S . Forest Service .
It must be properly maintained to ensure its efficiency .
In accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart , clean the spark arrester .
The spark arrester must be installed correctly and functioning properly to provide adequate fire protection
Spark Arrester Cleaning
To avoid burns , be sure the exhaust system is cold before cleaning the spark arrester .
The exhaust system becomes very hot soon after the engine is started .
Remove the muffler shield screws and take off the muffler shield .
A . Muffler Shield
Remove the mounting bolts and pull the tail pipe out from the muffler rear end .
Single Stops
Check the condition and slack .
A . Mounting Bolts
Tail Pipe
A . Spark arrester
In an open area away from combustible materials , start the engine with the transmission in neutral .
Raise and lower engine speed while tapping on the muffler with a rubber mallet until carbon particles are purged from the muffler .
Never run the engine with the spark arrester removed near combustible materials .
Hot carbon particles may start a fire .
Do not run the engine in a closed area .
Adjust and lubricate if needed .
Exaust gases contain carbon monoxide :
a colorless , odorless , poisonous gas .
Breathing exhaust gas leads to carbon monoxide poisoning , asphyxiation , and death .
Stop the engine .
Scrape carbon deposits off the spark arrester and slide it back into the muffler .
Install the tail pipe mounting bolts with a non-permanent locking agent applied to them , and tighten them securely .
Install the muffler shield .
The drive chain must be checked , adjusted , and lubricated for safety and to prevent excessive wear .
Rotate the rear wheel to find the position where the chain is tightest ( as it wears unevenly ) , and measure the maximum chain slack as follows :
Also check the chain slider for wear and replace if needed ( page ) .
Push up the chain midway between the engine sprocket and rear wheel sprocket .
The drive chain slack is that the drive chain is pushed out within 0 ~ 5 mm ( 0 ~ 0.2 in . ) from the hollow of the chain guard .
A . 0 ~ 5 mm ( 0 ~ 0.2 in . )
C . Chain Guard
Hollow
D . Push Up
0 ~ 5 mm ( 0 ~ 0.2 in . )
Remove the cotter pin from the torque link nut , and loosen the torque link nut .
A . Torque Link Nut
Loosen the rear axle nut .
Turn both chain adjusting nuts evenly until the drive chain slack ( refer to the Chain Slack Inspection section ) is 0 ~ 5 mm ( 0 ~ 0.2 in . ) .
For the rear wheel to be properly aligned , the notch on the left chain adjuster should align with the same swingarm mark that the notch on the right chain adjuster aligns with .
C . Adjusting Nut
F . Cotter Pin
Center the brake panel assembly in the brake drum .
This is done by tightening the rear axle nut lightly , spinning the wheel , and depressing the brake pedal forcefully .
The partially tightened rear axle nut allows the brake panel assembly to center itself in the brake drum .
This procedure can prevent a soft , or " spongy feeling " brake .
A well-maintained ATV is essential for safe , economical , and trouble-free riding .
Tighten the rear axle nut and the torque link nut to the specified torques .
64N · m ( 6 · 5 kgf · m , 47 ft · lb )
Torque Link Nut Tightening Torque
25 N · m ( 2.5 kgf · m , 18 ft · lb )
Install new cotter pins through the axle nut and torque link nut , and spread their ends .
If the axle nut or torque link nut is not securely tightened or a cotter pin is not installed , an unsafe riding condition may result .
Adjust the rear brake .
When the chain has reached its wear limit ( i . e . , when it appears stretched by 2 % of its original length ) , it is no longer safe for use and should be replaced .
Tighten the chain either by using the chain adjusters or by hanging a 10 kg ( 20 lb ) weight on the chain .
254 mm ( 10.0 in . )
It will also help reduce air pollution .
Wear Limit
259 mm ( 10.2 in . )
The drive system was designed for use with a DAIDO DID 420MBK1 88 link chain .
To minimize any chance of the master link coming apart , the master link clip must be installed with the closed end of the " U " pointing in the direction of chain rotation .
Chain Slipper Wear
Visually inspect the chain slipper on the swingarm and replace it if worn or damaged .
A . Chain Slipper Swingarm
Sprocket
Careful pre-ride inspections and good maintenance are especially important because your ATV is designed to be ridden over rough off-road terrain .
SPROCKET
Worn tooth ( Engine Sprocket )
Worn Tooth ( Rear Sprocket )
Direction of rotation
To keep the handlebar properly secured in place , it is necessary to install the handlebar clamps correctly .
Mount the handlebar clamps so that the arrows on the clamp face to the front .
Align the gap at the rear with the punch mark on the handlebar .
A . Front
D . Punch Mark
Handlebar Clamps
E . Gap
C . Arrow Mark
Torque it to 25 N • m ( 2.5 kgf . m , 18 ft • lb ) , front first , then rear .
If the handlebar clamps are correctly installed , there will be no gap at the front and an even gap at the rear of the clamps after torquing the bolts .
A . No Gap
Brake lining wear , drum wear , and cable stretch cause the brakes to go out of adjustment , increasing lever and pedal play , and decreasing braking effectiveness .
Brake adjustment to compensate for this consists of correcting the cam lever angle , adjusting the front brake lever and rear brake pedal travel .
Usable Range
On the rear brake panel is a brake lining wear indicator .
If the brake lining wear indicator does not point within the USABLE RANGE when the brake is fully applied , the brake shoe linings have worn past the service limit .
In this case , the brake shoes must be replaced and the drum and other brake parts examined by an authorized Kawasaki Dealer .
A . Rear Brake Panel
USABLE RANGE
C . Brake Lining Wear Indicator
Cam Lever Angle :
When the front brake is fully applied , the brake cam lever should come to an 80 90 ° angle with the brake cable .
Otherwise , remove the cam lever , and then reinstall it in a new position on the shaft to obtain the proper angle .
FUEL LINE
Adjust the brakes
Check brake linings for excessive wear before moving the front brake cam lever .
Inspect brake linings for excessive wear .
Replace brake linings if excess wear is found .
Inspection and replacement of brake components should be accomplished by an authorized dealer or other persons competent and experienced in brake inspection and service .
Front Brake Panel
C . Brake Cable
Cam Lever
Connections for leaks or damage
THROTTLE OPERATION
Since a cam lever angle greater than 90 º reduces braking effectiveness , this adjustment should not be neglected .
Whenever the cam lever angle is adjusted , also check for drag and proper pedal operation .
In case of doubt as to braking effectiveness , disassemble and inspect all internal brake parts .
Worn parts could cause the brake to lock or fail , possibly causing a crash .
Front Brake Lever Play Inspection
Check that the brake lever has 4 ~ 5 mm ( 0.16 ~ 0.20 in . ) of play when the brake is lightly applied .
C . 4 ~ 5 mm ( 0.16 ~ 0.20 in . )
Rotate the wheel to check for brake drag .
Operate the lever a few times to see that it returns to its rest position immediately upon release .
AIR CLEANER
Check braking effectiveness .
If the lever has improper play , adjust it .
Always maintain proper brake adjustment .
If adjustment is improper , the brake could drag and overheat .
This could damage the brake assembly and possibly lock the wheel , resulting in loss of control
Front Brake Lever Play Adjustment
Slide the front brake lever dust cover back .
Loosen the locknut at the front brake lever , screw the adjuster fully in , and tighten the locknut .
Loosen the nuts at the lower end of the front brake cable .
SPARK PLUG
Turn the nuts at the lower end of the front brake cable so that the brake lever play has 4 ~ 5 mm ( 0.16 ~ 0.20 in . ) , and tighten the nuts .
4 ~ 5mm ( 0.16 ~ 0.20 in . )
If sufficient adjustment cannot be made with the adjuster , complete the adjustment with the adjuster at the brake lever , and then tighten the locknut .
Check that there is no brake drag .
Slide the dust cover back into place .
For minor corrections , use the adjuster at the front brake lever .
If the brake lever adjustment cannot be made with the adjuster at the brake lever or at the brake panel , move the front brake cam lever to a new position on the brake camshaft
Rear Brake Pedal Play Inspection
The brake pedal play should have 20 ~ 30 mm ( 0.8 ~ 1.2 in . ) when the pedal is pushed down lightly by hand .
VALVE CLEARANCE
20 - .
30 mm ( 0.8 - 1.2 in . )
Operate the pedal a few times to see that it returns to its rest position immediately upon release .
It the pedal has improper play , adjust it .
This could damage the brake assembly and possibly lock the wheel , resulting in loss of control .
Rear Brake Pedal Play Adjustment
Turn the adjusting nut at the brake rod so that the pedal play has 20 ~ 30 mm ( 0.8 ~ 1.2 in . ) .
Check braking effectiveness
The steering play must be checked in accordance with the periodic maintenance chart .
ENGINE OIL
Remove the handlebar clamp bolts and take out the handlebar .
A . Handlebar Clamp Bolts
Loosen the steering head nut and front fork upper clamp bolts .
A . Steering Head Nut
Front Fork Upper Clamp Bolts
Stem Nut Wrench ( P / N .
44 N . m ( 4.5 kgf , m , 33 ft . lb )
ENGINE OIL STRAINER SCREEN
Upper Front Fork Clamp Bolt Tightening Torque
20 N • m ( 2.0 kgf . m , 14 ff . lb )
Install the handlebar and handlebar clamps ( see Handlebar section ) .
Check the steering again , and readjust if it is necessary .
Install the number plate .
The front fork oil change or the front fork inspection / cleaning should be done in accordance with the periodic maintenance chart .
If there is any damage to the front fork , or if front fork maintenance is necessary , it should be done by an authorized dealer .
The rear shock absorber inspection should be done in accordance with the periodic maintenance chart .
If there is any damage to the rear shock absorber , it should be replaced by an authorized dealer .
ENGINE OIL CENTRIFUGAL FILTER
This unit contains high-pressure gas .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not disassemble .
The installation and removal of the rear shock absorber should be done by an authorized dealer .
Adjust the tire air pressure to suit riding conditions and rider preference , but do not stray too far from the recommended pressure .
When checking the tire air pressure , remove the air valve cap , and ensure to tighten the cap securely after checking the tire pressure .
Tire air pressure should be checked when the tires are cold before your ride .
Track Condition
* When the track is wet , muddy , sandy or slippery , reduce the tire air pressure to increase the tire tread surface on the ground .
ENGINE IDLE SPEED
* When the track is pebbly or hard , increase the tire air pressure to prevent damage or punctures , though the tires will skid more easily .
Unevenly tightened or loose spokes will cause the rim to warp , hasten nipple and overall spoke fatigue , and may result in spoke breakage .
A . Spoke Wrench
Set up a dial gauge on the side of the rim , and rotate the wheel to measure its axial runout .
The difference between the highest and lowest dial readings is the amount of runout .
A certain amount of rim warpage ( runout ) can be corrected by recentering the rim , that is , loosening some spokes and tightening others to change the position of certain portions of the rim .
Where the rim is welded , the rim may show excessive runout .
Rim
SECONDARY AIR SUPPLY SYSTEM
Axial Runout
2.0 mm ( 0.08 in . )
Axial Rim Runout Measurement
Radial Rim Runout Measurement
Location of Nuts and Bolts
Before the first ride of each day of operation , check the tightness of the nuts and baits shown below .
Check also that all cotter pins are in place and in good conditi
Brake Cam Lever Bolt
Side Stand Mounting Bolt
Shroud Bolts
Cylinder Head Nuts or Bolts
Rear Shock Absorber Bolts
Oil Filter Cap Bolls
Chain Case Screws
Seat Mounting Bolts
Chain Adjuster Locknut
Air Cleaner Cover Screws
Engine Guard Bolts
Side Cover Bolt
Slovakia
Operating the engine without an air filter , or with a damaged air filter , will allow dirt to enter the engine , causing rapid engine wear .
Continue warming up the engine until it runs smoothly and responds to the throttle , when the choke lever down all the way to fully OFF .
NSCs are allowed , and better placed , to attach a definition to small , medium and large facilities within their own Dealer network in respect of sales volume or building footprint area .
Ireland
Compression ratio
A soft cloth moistened with a diluted amount of household or window cleaner can be used to remove more stubborn dirt .
VIN
i . LINK ( Audio S400 ) : Use S400 compatible 6-pin or 4-pin i . LINK cable ( IEEE 1394 cable )
The display uses the Dimmer 1 setting when the unit is turned on next time .
Also check the chain slider for wear and replace if needed ( page ) .
NSC CONTACTS
Rapid Service is always in English .
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Iceland
Application Rules – Stand Alone , Service Workshops , Used Cars , and Commercial Vehicle Facilities .
Estonia
UK
Switzerland
Guadeloupe
Russia
When the Rapid Service is located at a non visible side of the dealership its location should be identified with appropriate directional signs .
Combined ABS indicator ( amber )
Point the remote control at this sensor when using the remote control .
To replace these fuses , the fuel tank must be removed .
RCA : Use an RCA coaxial digital cable
If you have a tyre professionally replaced at a non-Honda facility , we recommended that you have the work checked by your Honda dealer .
Projecting signs .
Norway
The Netherlands
rider and all accessories
Although NE are not participating commercially in the internal works of the Dealerships , NE expect NSCs to mandate a number of internal branded elements and positively encourage their Dealers to invest in the internal works in accordance with the Standards Manual over time .
Used cars are an important part of the Dealer business .
When the diagnostics area is adjacent to Rapid Service work bays the same louvres and red bar can be used as for Rapid Service , however the text ‘ Diagnostics ’ will then be on the red bar instead of ‘ Service Without Appointment ’ .
EXCLUDED FROM NISSAN ’ S CONTRIBUTION
XLR output x 2 ( Use 2 terminals for ES-LINK or Dual AES output )
Our Nissan Dealership .
This will enable you to better understand proper riding techniques and safety messages .
Bulgaria
Select this setting when connecting the P-05 to an Esoteric D / A converter ( D-01 / D-03 / D-05 ) or to a Dual AES-compatible device using two XLR digital cables .
The display will remain on and flash ' ' 132 ° C ' ' .
The adjuster is set in the standard position when the adjuster is turned counterclockwise approximately turns ( ) or turns ( ) so that its punch mark ( ) aligns with the reference punch mark ( ) .
Because good instruction is an important part of learning how to ride , we strongly recommend that young riders take the free hands-on training course Honda offers to all new ATV owners and immediate family members .
The actual services offered can be shown on a brand compliant panel located next to the entry of the Rapid Service Bays thus :
Nissan Motor Espana , S . A .
Make sure the disc is placed in the center tray recess to avoid malfunction or jamming of the tray .
01 777 03 44 ( Direct Line )
It can be used with Esoteric D / A converters and amps , etc .
The length of time that gasoline can be left in your fuel tank and carburetor without causing functional problems will vary with such factors as gasoline blend , your storage temperatures , and whether the fuel tank is partially or completely filled .
You can convert the 44.1 kHz CD sampling frequency to 2x or 4x .
Tripmeter A can be displayed from 0 to 999.9 kilometers ( miles ) .
Illuminated Rapid Service letters are always mounted on half Louvres back panels and are available in 1 , 2 and 3 door sizes and are to be positioned above the designated garage door ( -s ) where Rapid Service is delivered .
This Standards Manual describes the standards and procedures on how to apply the New European Retail Design to all Nissan Dealerships in Europe .
INSC CONTACTS
When the workshop is shared with another manufacturer the Nissan workbays should be designated with a Nissan Service internal sign ( non-illuminated ) .
* You need to use the i . LINK connection when you play multi-channel sound from a Super Audio CD without mixing it down to stereo .
A 2x conversion rate that outputs a sampling frequency twice the 44.1 kHz CD sampling frequency .
Dealer name letters or ‘ Used Car ’ text .
Based on extensive research , the concept outlined here represents practical , state-of-the -art automotive retailing practices and includes new approaches that are a unique expression of the Nissan Brand .
Replace the slider when the depth of the grooves reaches the limit .
< For CF-T7 / CF-W7 series >
* For hybrid discs , the setting of whether to prioritize playback of the Super Audio CD layer or the CD layer can also be made in advance using the LAYER ( priority playback area ) setting mode .
Retail Signs – Rapid Service , Service Workshops , Used Cars and Commercial Vehicles .
Honda 4-stroke oil or an equivalent .
‘ Used Car ’ pylons are available in three different sizes ( 2.4 m monument , 3.6 m and 4.8 m ) and ‘ Used Car ’ text should appear on the pole sign header panel in combination with the NISSAN Wordmark ( as Commercial pole sign specification ) and should be in the local language .
Air quality
Combined ABS does not function if the battery is discharged .
Pre-Owned and Commercial Signs in both Pole and Monument varieties ( excluding foundations ) , including all power connections . .
No contribution is payable against submissions for approvals with local authorities regarding non signage related applications and landlords fees together with any associated direct or indirect Authorised Dealers ’ , NSC ’ s or their consultants ’ charges and fees including fees or charges outstanding from previous sign applications and permits .
A 4x conversion rate that outputs a sampling frequency four times the 44.1 kHz CD sampling frequency .
Nissan ’ s new Retail Environmental Design Initiative has been developed to showcase a revitalised Nissan Brand – our products , our services and our identity – at the place where our customers come into closest contact with us :
Refer to an official Honda Shop Manual .
The ABS motor fuses should be inspected by a Honda dealer , unless the owner has proper tools and service data and is mechanically qualified .
Use the DISPLAY button during playback or when playback is stopped to select the display modes described below .
Always wear a face shield or goggles to protect your eyes and help your vision .
Belgium
Torre Nissan ( Plaza Cerda )
The following items are available in the Esoteric MEXCEL cable series .
< For CF-Y7 series >
You can use the P-05 remote control .
Should be serviced by your Honda dealer , unless you have the proper tools and service data and are mechanically qualified .
Nissan Dealer Facility Upgrade Program .
Use whichever fits the cable being connected to .
Select this setting when not using the XLR terminals .
This terminal allows the use of an externally generated word clock connection using a commercially available BNC coaxial cable ( 75 ohm ) .
All others should have this carburetor modification performed by a Honda dealer .
Combined ABS does not function if the ABS main or the ABS motor fuses are blown .
When connecting multiple devices via i . LINK cable , use both terminals .
NISSAN Wordmark and
For new buildings standard cladding systems can be used .
Open the main and FI fuse box cover ( ) .
Also , be sure to follow the loading guidelines and weight limit ( page ) .
Removal , re-instatement or re-siting of burglar alarms or any other site security installations , replacement or alteration of glazing ( including dot matrix ) , relocation of entrances or walkways and introduction of cladding / decoration , sub-structure works to enable the installation of the signs , general property improvements , maintenance and repair work including landscaping , improvements , extensions or alterations to the internal electrical installation inward of and including fireman ’ s switches , the provision of new electrical sources for illuminated signs not associated with or caused by the Nissan Programme signage and any other items not associated with the Programme .
Settings 1
Select this mode when the P-05 is used with three D-05 units or with a multi-channel D / A converter and an i . LINK connection .
Select this setting when not using the RCA terminals .
For connection to an i . LINK-capable device , use a commercially available S400-compliant 6-pin i . LINK cable .
TURNER & TOWNSEND REGIONAL PROJECT MANAGERS
SECONDARY AIR SUPPLY SYSTEM
The ABS motor fuses ( ) are located on the starter magnetic switch .
6.0 SHARED WORKSHOPS
( page 19 )
England
* Note that turning off the unit cancels the OFF setting .
For details , see the chart on page 8 .
When the Rapid Service area is situated internally in a shared workshop the NISSAN Wordmark can be added to the internal sign ( non illuminated ) to mark the Nissan designated area .
Czech Republic
Sets the UP CONVERT sampling frequency of the digital signal output from the XLR terminals during CD playback .
Cyprus
By connecting an i . LINK ( AUDIO ) -capable device to the IEEE 1394 ( or i . LINK ( AUDIO ) terminal on this unit using an i . LINK cable , you can transmit Super Audio CD multi-channel signals that could not be transmitted but in analog format in the past can be transmitted in its original digital format , in addition to the capability of transmitting 2-ch linear PCM data and multi-channel compressed audio signals .
The location of the Rapid Service area is preferably on the primary elevation of the dealership so it is highly visible for customer traffic .
Nissan Rapid Service is the official brand name for quick service without appointment .
Input frequency range . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ± 15 ppm
Greece
The result is a Nissan Dealership facility and sign initiative that is flexible , affordable and functional – an innovative and authentic presentation of the new Nissan .
On these louvres the text " Rapid Service " is applied in white illuminated canister letters .
Rear
Denmark
Lights when the i . LINK output is set to ” ON ” .
Reception counters , Brand Walls , POS , furniture , finishes , fixtures and fittings , external direct lighting including electrics .
Use the FL DIMMER button to select any of the following brightness levels for the display and button indicators .
Light to show which surround channels are currently in use .
Austria
The specified fuses are :
Germany
Bore and stroke
Poland
- > Make sure the line cords and speaker cables are as far away from the AC supply as possible .
Turkey
Louvres ( to main elevations , secondary elevations subject to approval ) .
* The types of functions and operations that can be used for a particular disc vary depending on the features built into that disc .
Use this setting when you do not use a word clock .
When speed increases , release the throttle and shift to 2nd gear by raising the shift lever one full stroke .
France
Pylons , Poles and Monument Signs ( excluding foundations ) .
Finland
INCLUDED WITHIN NISSAN ’ S CONTRIBUTION
The SETUP button on the remote control unit of the P-05 can also be used .
Close the main and FI fuse box cover and install the front seat .
Remove the cause of the error and press the OPEN / CLOSE button again to open or close the tray .
Turn the damping adjuster ( ) clockwise until it will no longer turn ( lightly seats ) .
Turn the fuel valve lever to the OFF position ( see page ) .
172 pin Micro DIMM used in CF-T5 / CF-W5 series cannot be used .
For Nissan the signage that can be applied for Used Cars is :
Sweden
Ile De La Reunion
Use commercially available cables for the following connections .
The illuminated red bar underneath the Rapid Service sign shows ‘ Service Without Appointment ’ or an equivalent in a local language approved by the local NSC .
i . LINK ( AUDIO ) output ( 6-pin ) x 1
XLR : Use a balanced XLR digital audio cable
Design - Contents - Revision 2
* In order to play Super Audio CDs , use an i . LINK cable to connect to a D / A converter equipped with an i . LINK terminal .
Refer to the official Honda Shop Manual .
Martinique
i . LINK ( AUDIO ) output ( 4-pin ) x 1
Works under any maintenance agreement , repair work and any acquisition of spares or extras by the NSC or Authorised Dealers including all extra letters , slats , panels , bulbs , tubes , cables , switches , transformers and the like after the signing of the Final Certificate for each Authorised Dealer site .
The Rapid Service signage consists of a silver panel of 750mm . high with half louvres .
The main unit can accept and synchronize to the following frequencies received from external devices … … … … … … . .
Slovenia
Remove the speed sensor guide ( ) and speed sensor ( ) from the right fork leg by removing the bolts ( ) .
In order to develop and retain a consistent and coherent Nissan Brand , these guidelines and procedures should be strictly adhered to .
Guyana
Dealers Name sign ( unless considered excessive numbers ) .
For those who are mechanically proficient and have the necessary tools , adjustment procedures are given in the official Honda Shop Manual available from your Honda dealer .
Israel
The new design has been developed through interaction with Dealers , benchmarked against our competition , and , of course , designed to satisfy our customers .
Before changing your oil , make sure you have the proper containers .
Trail
All claims , disputes and arbitration costs and awards associated with the sign contractor or Authorised Dealers including claims associated with ‘ force majeure ’ .
However , you should have the system checked by your Honda dealer as soon as possible .
Hungary
When the Rapid Service is offered over more than 1 working bay the Rapid Service sign will be applied over all the doors with both ‘ Rapid Service ’ and ‘ Service Without Appointment ’ texts centralised .
The Rapid Service Sign is installed above the workshop doors where the service is available .
When removing and installing the wheel , be careful not to damage the sensor and pulser ring ( Model equipped with Combined ABS ) .
The vehicle doors and the fuel fill door will automatically relock if the remote transmitter unlock function is used .
Select this setting when connecting to a D / A converter using one XLR cable .
* The i . LINK terminals are equipped with 6-pin and 4-pin connectors .
EXTERIOR - SECONDARY SIGNAGE
Nissan Wordmark External acrylic / polycarbonate to match PMS200 routed out and pushed through cabinet illuminated with fluorescent lamps .
This facility encourages customers to use their Nissan dealership for minor but quick repairs as well as routine maintenance .
Commercial Signage Spec Data :
Choice of luminaires and ancillary fittings should be based on the basic specification provided .
SECONDARY SIGNAGE POLE MOUNTED
Nissan product
EXTERIOR - COMMERCIAL SIGNAGE
However in principal the dealership should be situated in a location with high exposure so that the maximum amount of people may be aware of the existence of a Nissan dealership .
Use cars to display accessories .
The layout of a Nissan Dealership should be based on the concepts of presenting our products to their best advantage and customer satisfaction .
However these are minimum standards and Nissan encourages that these standards be exceeded where reasonably possible .
In order to maintain a consistent Visual Identity for each Nissan Dealer Nissan Europe has established a set of signs that are especially developed for the After Sales areas , Used Car areas and for dedicated Truck dealers and Service only workshops .
E
NISSAN MAIN DEALER
COMMERCIAL
EXTERIOR - LOUVRES
Choice of luminaires and ancillary fittings should be carefully considered .
Where a lower quality finish must be used concrete , asphalt or similar materials are suitable .
The Dealer shall conform to all local regulations .
Main elements for the After Sales , Used Cars and Truck areas are :
NISSAN FULL SECONDARY DEALER
Specifically the Dealer should consider installing a communication network which will manage all internal and external communications .
Where seasonal flowering plants are used they should be selected with care .
Secondary Signage Spec Data :
Commercial :
As with other elements of the exterior environment , walls and fences should appear as neutral as possible so that attention is focused on the vehicles and Nissan branding .
The Dealer Name letters .
EXTERIOR - COMMERCIAL MONUMENT SIGNAGE
Whilst the building may be distinctive and original this is secondary to displaying the cars and supporting the Nissan image in the form of the new external signage .
Large shrubs and trees should not obstruct visibility but may be used to soften the boundaries of the site , screen off unsightly features or areas and break up large expanses of hardscaping .
EXTERIOR - HALF LOUVRES
Commercial Vehicles
BODY REPAIR NISSAN WITHOUT PAINT
The new Nissan Visual Identity is developed to reinforce the Nissan Brand in all its activities .
DATE SCALE
The NISSAN Wordmark .
Showroom .
Ramp
SECONDARY SIGNAGE
This procedure , which should spot any additional work required , convinces the customer of the necessity of having the work carried out and demonstrates Nissan ’ s professionalism and thoroughness .
NISSAN AUTHORISED REPAIR SHOP
RAPID SERVICE , SERVICE WORKSHOPS , USED CARS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE FACILITIES
DEALER NAME
NISSAN SALES ONLY DEALER
STANDARD CLADDING WITH STANDARD SIGNAGE ELEMENT ( 750mm Louvres )
ERCO SCHEME VALENCIA
White dividing lines or a contrast in the floor finish should be used to indicate the spaces .
The Nissan Secondary dealership has all services as the Main Dealer but has a contractual relation with a main Nissan Dealer .
A high quality appearance can be achieved by the use of brick paviors , textured concrete slabs or stone .
NISSAN SERVICE ONLY DEALER
Nissan Word mark External acrylic / polycarbonate to match PMS200 routed out and pushed through cabinet illuminated with fluorescent lamps .
Buildings - Site , Building Form and Interior Space Planning - Revision 2 .
The Nissan Main Dealer additional outlet has the same range of services as the Main Dealer but is operated by a Main Dealer and has no contractual links with the NSC .
Small species of greater variety should be used in areas that customers pass close by .
Nissan is moving to a Premium image which will appeal particularly to our target customers .
The Nissan Service Only Dealer has a contractual relation with a Main Dealer .
4 No . standard depth louvre panels at 1500mm , 1300mm , 1000mm & 750mm using a 230mm ( 9 ” ) extruded blade at equal spacing o / a module length 3000mm .
HEALTH
COMMERCIAL [ ss3 ]
150mm h x 600mm w x 75mm
The Nissan Sales Only Dealer is only selling cars and has no service facilities .
300mm h x 1200mm w x 150mm
The minimum sign requirement includes a NISSAN Wordmark , Dealer Name letters , pole mounted pylon and wall signs .
SECURITY SYSTEMS
View of info , merchandise and accessories .
Customer entertainment , Nissan advertisements , current motoring magazines or today ’ s papers , TV , video or DVD programmes may all make the visit to the dealership more enjoyable .
Ensure that spans for louvres conform to structural grid whenever possible .
Size as Main Dealer wall signs .
Louvres may be only be used on a Main Dealer new car showroom or a Full Secondary Dealership .
Nissan Front-Office
Nissan Rapid Service .
The single entrance and its Nissan Entrance Statement provides one highly visible entrance through which all customers may enter the dealership to obtain information and assistance on all products and services .
Nissan Wordmark External acrylic / polycarbonate to match PMS200 .
Information and lifestyle graphics should interact with the cars so that customers may view the car , be informed of its features and visualise using it .
" Ontario Secura " or Epoxy finish RAL 7043
The Showroom Louvres .
Artemide
The Dealer must adopt a responsible attitude to the importance of environmental protection and should comply with all environmental regulations , legislation and industry codes of practice associated with :
NISSAN MAIN DEALER ADDITIONAL OUTLET
APPLICATION RULES - STANDALONE , SERVICE WORKSHOPS , USED CARS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE FACILITIES
BACK-OFFICE ORGANISATION
ARTEMIDE SCHEME VALENCIA
Luceri 2x42W + glass L598200 + L591320
For example a customer having his car serviced will be able to view the new cars and accessories , a new Nissan vehicle owner can see how well vehicles are maintained .
Showroom vehicle access door should be large enough to accommodate all Nissan vehicles .
5000 metres
Starpoint Pendant
NISSANWORDMARK
The Dealer must adopt a responsible attitude to security and crime prevention .
The Nissan Authorised Repair Shop has the same services as the Nissan Service Dealer but has a direct contract with the NSC .
The minimum new car display must show Nissan ’ s most popular models plus a prestige or promotional model .
The signage uses elements of the Retail VI programme , however some elements are exclusively for new car sales areas and may not be used on the After Sales , Used Cars and Truck areas .
Although new car sales is the priority business for a car manufacturer the After Sales and Used Cars business is a substantial part of the Dealer business .
Sign Cabinet , colour Sunrise Silver metallic cladding PPG 5M92767 .
Commercial Pylon ( 6000 x 2100mm , 4800 x 1800mm , 3800 x 1800mm ) .
Furthermore the siting of the lift should be convenient to the intended users .
TYPICAL PLAN LAYOUTS NISSAN VALENCIA
Where no standards have been provided , the style of luminaires and fittings should complement the contemporary design of the facility .
For both the workshop and the Parts & Accessories retailing operation to work successfully the parts warehouse must be carefully laid out .
LEGEND Lamp
Sales Desk Sales Desk
Wall signage in three sizes based on Nissan brand mark 1650mm , 1350mm and 1050mm .
TYPICAL PLAN LAYOUTS NISSAN APELDOORN
The NISSAN Brand Symbol should only appear on a Main Dealership new car showroom and Full Secondary Dealership .
Entrance
Specific areas should be allocated to both goods-in and goods-out .
Security personnel .
Nissan name 460mm h , mounted 860mm from end of louvre
Does not have to consider which of the multiple entrances he should use .
It reflects their lifestyles and their aspirations , supporting and confirming their decision to choose Nissan .
Workshop
Although admin areas are not customer facing , Nissan ’ s Brand should percolate into these areas in terms of complementary aesthetics irrespective of styles , colours and materials providing a good quality , comfortable and transparent working environment .
Red Accent Optical , external grade polycarbonate to match PMS200 to front and base , illuminated with fluorescent lamps .
The Nissan Main Dealer has the full range of Nissan Products and Services .
The size and facilities of the dealership must ensure a comprehensive , satisfactory level of service can be provided in line with Nissan ’ s standards .
Neutral flower colours such as cream or white should be used in preference to pink , red or purple which may clash with the Nissan red of the signage elements .
Dealer name 320mm h , mounted 860mm from end of louvre
Sunrise Silver back panels .
NISSAN WORDMARK
All existing Nissan signs shall be removed and there shall never be sites with a mixture of old and new Nissan signs .
COMMERCIAL PYLON
When the used cars are displayed inside , the showroom area can be identified by a Used Car Pylon , Sunrise Silver back panels , the NISSAN Wordmark and Dealer Name letters or ‘ Used Car ’ text .
Neither two NISSAN Wordmarks nor two Dealer Name Signs should appear at the same corner of a facility .
Length of Louvres each side to suit situation .
Ceiling HT 2800mm
Retail Signs - Rapid Service - Revision 2
On very small sites it is acceptable to use Wall signs only .
ARTEMIDE SCHEME APELDOORN
Nissan letters debossed and decorated with first and second surface black 3M film .
Text height as Dealer name .
metres 5000
Nissan Services
The Dealer must adopt a responsible attitude to the disabled , young and elderly .
The appearance of the whole dealership must support the Nissan image in Europe .
NISSAN FASTFIT SERVICES
Safe disposal of toxic and other non-environmentally friendly goods .
The facilities provided in the workshop must ensure the dealership is capable of meeting the standards of service set by Nissan for Aftersales .
Flat cladding to be used on small dealerships where rapid service is located near the main dealership entrance .
Dealer name 6mm aluminium .
Subtle display lighting may be considered to highlight the coffee tables , media areas counters and the accessories / merchandising displays .
The Nissan Brand Symbol ( Logo ) .
Ayrton 98 12v50w L613520 12v50w GU5 . 3 24deg
For this reason it is more suitable to use low , directed light for general purposes rather than high level powerful floodlights .
Buildings - Layout - Revision 2 .
LOUVRES
Nissan brand identity area
Only the NISSAN Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters can be placed on the Louvres .
Pole mounted pylons .
ERCO SCHEME APELDOORN
Nissan Word mark , External acrylic / polycarbonate to match PMS200 routed out and pushed through cabinet illuminated with fluorescent lamps .
Rear elevation to Entrance Feature without Nissan logo .
Luceri 220 Flat 2xTCD26W L592400 + float glass L597320 Dulux D 26W 4000K x 2
Nissan New European Retail Design – Standards Manual .
The entrance to the site must be clearly marked and highly visible through the use of the Nissan Pylon .
Balancer
The Nissan Service Only Dealer carries out only service and maintenance works and has no sales facilities .
Parts
Starpoint Pendant HIT-CRI 150W , G12 , L110
Accessories , merchandise and information should be displayed in this area .
Dealer Name
Previous Network 2000 support construction is to be reused as much as possible .
7.10 When used cars are displayed outside under a canopy the same rules as above can be applied .
Dealer Pylons to be positioned perpendicular to the main road , in close proximity to the main entrance to the Dealer site .
The Monument and Wall Mounted signs exist all as the commercial specification and as an alternative to the Pole mounted Pylon .
The Nissan Secondary dealership has all services as the main dealer but has a contractual relationship with a main Nissan Dealer .
Force balancing by means of exposed stainless steel connecting rods and concealed springs within the profile .
Use of Projecting Signs should be minimised and can only be used if no Pylon or Monument Sign are allowed .
Directional & Locational signs as per Main Dealer application rules .
The Dealer Name is to be positioned in Sunrise Silver letters on the red portion of the element at a fixed height above the ground .
APPLICATION RULES - STAND ALONE , SERVICE WORKSHOPS , USED CARS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE FACILITIES
INFORMATION / ACCESSORIES / MERCHANDISE / COLOUR AND TRIM DISPLAYS
When both the integrated and freestanding E . S . cannot be used due to site constraints ( e . g . inner city dealerships that border on pavements ) the E . S . P . in combination with a red E . P . can be used .
Preferably a standardized integrated S , M or L version will be used ; these can be used handed as well .
POS FIXTURES - NISSAN SERVICES DETAILS
A flag can be cleaned using warm water ( 40deg ) and mild detergent .
2000mm High Wall Mounted Units .
Preferably Louvres should run on the same horizontal level irrespective of varying roof lines / building heights .
Dealer Name or Service letters should preferably be located on the left side of the primary elevation and the NISSAN Wordmark to the right .
Dealer Pylons are available in 4 different sizes ( 2.40 m . monument size , 3.60 m . , 4.80 m . and 6.00 m ) .
Dealer Name letters shall not be stacked .
Size
Used Cars , Service , Truck or Authorised Repair Shop should appear on the pole sign header panel in combination with the Nissan Wordmark and should be in the local language .
* Retail Fixtures comprise of Brochure Holder , Accessory Unit , Merchandise Unit , Audio / Navigation Unit , Alloy Wheel Unit
Units Ideally used back to back to display 6 wheels in total .
LETTERS
Vending machines should not be used .
For the connection to the mains , quick connecting devices are used and , after being fitted to the feed lines , make it possible to use both through-wirings with up to 2.5 mm diameter section conductors , and connection on several switches and 3-phase feed systems , and even ground connection for possible Class I users on the same line .
Office signage , e . g . door plaques , are not mandatory and are not included within these Application Rules , however , if door signs are required they should be simple and clear with sunrise silver backgrounds with the Nissan typeface in Nissan red .
Preferably the facility main door entrance should be visible from the Dealer Pylon .
The Nissan Service Only Dealer only carries out service and maintenance and has no sales facilities .
8.5 These facilities may be a stand-alone building on the same site as a Main Dealership or on a separate site .
LCV / TRUCK SHOWROOM
The Nissan Service Only Dealer does only carry out service and maintenance and has no sales facilities .
Interior signage should only be used where it definitely assists the customer .
Dealer Name letters and Nissan Wordmark in general to be positioned on the Louvres at the primary elevation , whereby the Dealer Name is positioned on the left and the Nissan Wordmark on the right .
Louvres may only be used on a Main Dealership ’ s new car showroom or a Full Secondary Dealership .
For Nissan , the signage that can be applied for LCV / Trucks is :
Blades fitted wrong way round
Commercial Pylons are available in three different sizes ( 2.4 m monument , 3.6 m and 4.8 m ) .
The fitting system , made of screw cursors , allows the device to be firmly positioned on irregularly thick panels ; the screw devices can be accessed from outside the fitting , after removing the flange or possible accessories by means of the handy and safe bayonet fit .
LCV / Truck Pylon or Wall Sign .
CORE APPLICATION GUIDELINES FOR EXTERNAL SIGNAGE FOR MAIN DEALER , MAIN DEALER ADDITIONAL OUTLET AND FULL SECONDARY DEALER
Text to front of desk to be 65mm high in font Nissan AG Medium Extended .
3.0 ENTRANCE STATEMENT & LOUVRES
The minimum sign requirement includes a Nissan Wordmark , Dealer Name letters , pole mounted pylon and wall signs .
Projecting Sign ; small and large size available .
Typeface is Nissan AG Medium Extended in upper and lower case .
Long Dealer Names should be avoided .
1.90 kg .
Insecure
6.0 PROJECTING SIGNS & WALL / ROOF SIGNS
On very small sites , it is acceptable to use the Wall signs only .
A visual balance between the Brands must be maintained therefore the following standards have been agreed :
At peak periods , these desks can double up as a sales point if necessary .
The Dealer Pylon will replace the Network 2000 pylon and will fit on the Network 2000 foundation where appropriate .
HEIGHT ( mm )
Louvres should be applied as a minimum to the full width of the showroom ’ s primary elevation .
POS FIXTURES - NISSAN SERVICES
The silver panels should have a height : width ratio of 1 :
When displayed in the open air a banner can be applied in Sunrise Silver with the NISSAN Wordmark and the Dealer Name or ‘ Used Car ’ text .
Louvres may only be used on a Main Dealer new car showroom or a Full Secondary Dealership .
5.0 DEALER NAME LETTERS AND NISSAN WORDMARK
2.10 kg
Nissan Service graphic panel formed 9mm mdf , spray finish charcoal grey ref Ral 7021 . Red accent to match pantone 200c .
Dealer Name letters or ‘ Commercial Vehicle ’ text .
The number of Louvres used determines position and size of letters as per the table below .
NISSAN RED
If the stand alone building is on a separate site , the Dealer Name is recommended instead of the Service text but this is not mandatory .
Priority in Used Car or Commercial Pylons :
4.0 LOUVRES & BRACKETS
In the case when both Nissan Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters will not fit in the space available on the Louvres , the Dealer Name letters shall take preference and the Nissan Wordmark shall be re-located onto another part of the elevation independent of the Louvres .
The number of Nissan Wordmarks will always be equal to or more than the number of Dealer Names .
If not possible , the Projecting Sign can be positioned at the fascia and always at the end of the Louvres , never in the middle .
Only the Nissan Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters can be placed on the Louvres .
However , if Dealer possesses unit now he must replace with new version
Dealer logos shall not be applied to Fixtures .
Dealers should obtain the related accessories , merchandise , colour and trim swatches , and other POS materials graphics from their Distributor .
Commercial vehicles / LCV
Louvres shall not appear / project above the roofline .
In case of a significant surface of closed ( non glazed ) facade above the Louvres , Dealer Name and Wordmark can be positioned above the Louvres but only on silver cladding background .
When LCV / Trucks are displayed outside under a canopy the same rules as above can be applied .
Used Car or Commercial Pylons should not possess any additional text ( e . g . Dealer Name ) and should not be illuminated by indirect lighting .
At the corners of a facility Louvres will be ‘ open ’ .
Font Nissan AG Medium Extended .
BRACKETS AT INCORRECT CENTRES
Units may be used Single unit , Double unit and in groups of 4 back to back .
There should be visible contact with the reception and adjacent to merchandise and accessories .
In the case where Network 2000 fascia is removed silver aluminum back panels may be required behind the Louvres .
Louvres have a maximum span of 3.00 m between brackets but can be less if agreed .
Whilst portraying an efficient business environment it must also be comfortable and welcoming for customers .
The distance between the Nissan Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters should not exceed 30 m and as a minimum should not be less than four times the height of the Nissan Wordmark letters .
The NISSAN Wordmark and Dealers Name OR Service text letters should be applied to the stand alone building to the primary elevation .
The Dealer Name is to be positioned in sunrise silver letters on the E . P . No other text or visuals are allowed .
Wall Signs and Roof Sign with Nissan Wordmark on silver back panels ( two sizes available ) to be used for long visibility at high levels above the Louvres .
The NISSAN Wordmark and Dealer Name letters should be fixed on to Sunrise Silver back panels .
DEALER NAME HERE NISSAN
Position of Projecting Sign is preferably above the Louvres .
Take flags down during heavy to storm force winds and during periods of harsh weather conditions such as hail , snow or heavy rain .
Security tags to be used on all items .
Interior signs can be applied in Wall Mounted ( single sided ) , Hanging ( double sided ) and Projecting ( double sided ) variants .
Louvres are to run horizontally and parallel in front of the glass fa ç ade .
Incorrectly fixed
Where Nissan Flags are to be used with Renault Flags both sets of Flags are to be the same height , size and number .
Neutralisation means removal of old Network 2000 items and Nissan blue Optional means that Dealer may take one if he does not have one now .
5.0 NISSAN WORDMARK AND DEALER NAMES
Slot wall to be used on this unit for display flexibility .
REQUIRED THRU TOP
Nissan AG-Medium Extended
Additional fittings are available if required for better presentation purposes .
aluminium , silver , mirror-finish anodised .
Latest technology fittings and lamps .
8.0 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES AND TRUCKS
Height of Louvres depends on height and general appearance of building .
The Nissan Brand Symbol should not appear on any Fixtures except as provided on the Brand Wall .
The Nissan Secondary dealership has all services as the Main Dealer but has a contractual relationship with a main Nissan Dealer .
NISSAN FONT
Roof and Wall Signs should be in proportion to the building .
8.6 When a LCV / Truck pylon is installed in combination with a retail pylon the LCV / Truck car pylon should always be smaller than the retail pylon .
POS FIXTURES - MERCHANDISE – ACCESSORIES
The Brand Symbol on the Brand Wall is non-illuminated but should be highlighted via ceiling display lighting provided by the Dealer .
The supporting rods / fixing plates for the Hanging and Projecting signs are to be Charcoal Grey RAL 7021 .
If 5.4 and 5.5 are not possible , Louvres can be positioned above the glass ( in case of existing Network 2000 :
Type of Louvres , size of Wordmark and Dealer Name letters and their position on the Louvres are presented in the table below :
LCV and / or Trucks should be displayed in a separate showroom from the passenger cars with separate Visual Signage .
POS FIXTURES - NISSAN SERVICES LOW LEVEL
MDF board will have to be jointed in the middle using biscuit jointing
Rows of Louvres relate to size of Nissan Wordmark and Dealer Name Letters , refer to table in section 5 .
The following may NEVER be applied to LCV / Trucks :
POS FIXTURES - MERCHANDISE - ACCESSORIES
If the Entrance Statement is located on the extreme right hand side of the primary elevation , then the Dealer Name letters may be reversed in order to avoid the conflict with the Nissan Brand Symbol on the Entrance Statement ] .
The Nissan Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters are the only permissible signs that shall appear on the Louvres .
The Nissan Service Only Dealer has a contractual relationship with a Main Dealer .
‘ Commercial ’ or ‘ Truck ’ text should appear on the pole sign header panel in combination with the NISSAN Wordmark and should be in the local language .
POS FIXTURES - MERCHANDISE - ACCESSORIES DETAILS
This document presents and illustrates the recommendation for common back-office standards in the Renault and Nissan network .
Nissan AG fonts available on CD-ROM .
80mm DIAM HOLE
Wall mounted , Projecting and Ceiling mounted Locational and Directional Signage can be 1 or more slats .
Recessed downlighters provide bright pools of light of about 500 Lux rather than a uniformed lighting level and feature luminaires may be used .
Used Car or Commercial Pylons should always be smaller than the Dealer Retail Pylon and Used Car / Commercial Pylons should be located at least 10m from the Dealer Retail Pylon .
The Nissan Brand Symbol should not appear on the facility except as provided on the Entrance Statement and Entrance Panel , and by exception , if no Pylon is approved , on a Projecting Sign .
FRONT ELEVATION
Louvres may be installed on secondary elevations in addition to the primary elevation provided that the secondary elevation is part of the New Vehicle sales showroom .
Neither two Nissan Wordmarks nor two Dealer Name Signs should appear at the same corner of a facility .
The words NISSAN , Dealer ( or any translation ) , additions like Ltd , SAS , BV . GmbH . S . p . A . , etc shall be excluded from the Dealer Name letters .
Dealer Pylons should be adjacent / visible from the main road / highway .
Dealer Pylons will not have any additional text ( e . g . dealer name ) and will not be illuminated by indirect lighting .
No Louvres to be applied to the building .
Retail Signs - Application Rules - Stand Alone , Service Workshops , Used Cars and Commercial Vehicle Facilities - Revision 2
POS FIXTURES - MERCHANDISE - ACCESSORIES LOW LEVEL
Monument size can be used whenever a Dealer Pylon is not an Option due to site constraints or permit approval .
Abeit both schemes vary in specification and approach , both will provide the type and quality of illumination required by Nissan .
Misaligned joints
For new build sites or when the pylon needs to be relocated , the priority in Dealer Pylons is :
POS FIXTURES - MERCHANDISE - ACCESSORIES LOW LEVEL DETAILS
LCV . TRUCK PYLON
The height – width ratio of the E . S . has to remain intact as much as possible .
POS FIXTURES - NISSAN SERVICES LOW LEVEL DETAILS
THE STANDARD OF FURNITURE ILLUSTRATES THE DEALER ’ S COMMITMENT TOHIS CUSTOMERS AND HIS STAFF
Directional arrows should match Nissan Red .
8.7 Commercial Pylons are available in three different sizes ( 2.4 m monument size , 3.6 m . and 4.8 m . ) .
Dealer Name missing
Aluminium , silver , mirror-finish anodised .
Only in exceptional circumstances will Half Louvres be allowed as the back panel for Dealer Name and Wordmark , i . e . above showrooms at urban sites where the depth of full Louvres exceeds local regulations .
For this position the bottom of the Projecting Sign is aligned to the bottom row of Louvres .
Flags with a red background and white letters are used to advertise the Dealer name and will only be a single Flag in the case of 3 total and 2 Dealer name Flags when 5 total Flags are used .
Nissan Wordmark and Dealer Name are available in different sizes .
Mitered angles to continue around corners of facetted / curved buildings are not required .
To protect Brand image , both Renault and Nissan visual identity departments will monitor closely the development and application of the standards .
Used Car or Commercial Pylon should be in close proximity to Commercial or Truck facilities where they exist .
Ensure flags are fitted correctly and securely to the flag pole so that they cannot make contact with any surfaces that will reduce their life span ( tree branches , roof tiles etc ) .
Second preferred position is bottom Louvre positioned in front of the glass and top Louvres above the glass in front of the fascia .
Neither two Nissan Wordmarks nor two Dealer Name signs should appear at the same corner of a facility .
In certain circumstances ( such as glass doors ) the text may be presented in Nissan White without the silver background .
0 C OMMERCIAL PYLON ( LCV / TRUCK , USED CARS PYLON )
Height of the E . S . has no direct relation to the position or type of Louvres used , but all are to be in proportion with the size and overall appearance of the building .
DEALERNAME FLAG
Nissan brochures , current magazines and daily papers should be available .
Alternatively , Louvres may be extended to a secondary elevation and used to present the Nissan Wordmark .
Louvres are only to be positioned on the New Vehicle Showroom fa ç ade to indicate where new cars are displayed .
Standard TV ’ s or Plasma Screen TV ’ s can be used on the rear counter if separate TV stands are inappropriate .
Lighting is a fundamental element of the Nissan facility and creates an exciting retail environment that enhances Vehicle Display both night and day .
Uphold the identity and differentiation between Renault and Nissan brands in order to optimise the sales and potential yield of each brand
Units may be used Single unit , Double unit
The minimum sign requirement includes an Entrance Statement or Entrance Panel , Nissan Wordmark and Dealer Name letters .
Used Car or Commercial Pylon to be positioned perpendicular to the main road preferably in close proximity to the main entrance to the Dealer site .
Text and Symbols should be presented in Nissan Black , matt finish against a back ground of Nissan Silver Metallic ACM or equal .
Sunrise silver pack panels .
7.0 LOCATIONAL & DIRECTIONAL SIGNAGE
Monument size can be used whenever a Dealer Pylon is not an option due to site constraints or permit approval .
The Flags are spun polyester with white background and red letters to read Nissan .
In case a Main Dealership has stand-alone facilities for Service Only or Used Cars on the same site , the Dealer Name should only appear on the main building .
LCV / TRUCK PYLON
Bottom edges of Nissan Wordmark and Dealer name should align .
Sizes available as Dealers Name for Main Dealers facility .
Commercial
If planning permission does not allow a New Nissan Retail VI compliant pylon , in this case only , a New Nissan Retail VI compliant projecting sign with the Brand symbol is a suitable replacement ( if planning permission allows a projecting sign ) .
If the service reception is only used for Nissan customers , the service receptionists must wear clothes in line with new Nissan Retail VI guidelines .
In Nissan only branded sites , all furniture in the Nissan customer touch areas ( desks , chairs , counters ) must be in line with the new Nissan Retail VI .
email :
There must be a full time designated salesman for every 150 yearly retail sales ( designated = fully trained to Nissan products ) .
The Nissan dedicated sales customer area is in the showroom and comprises at least sales desks and waiting area .
It is worth noting that adopting a standard sized NISSAN Wordmark , as specified in the Dealer signage catalogue , will be more economical as non-standard sized letters will be custom made and attract a premium price .
The Nissan dedicated showroom is separated from the other brand-dedicated showrooms ( if they exist ) by a potentially movable , non transparent screen or wall of at least 1 .
4 Nissan Wordmark , Dealer Name or Delivery Outlet letters are available in different
All external navigation and location signs must be new Nissan Retail VI compliant .
All shared Nissan tools shall be kept in a common area in an organized manner and under proper conditions .
If this reception is shared with another make , it must either be Nissan branded or neutral and not branded to another make .
There is at least one full time designated technician for 6 Nissan repair orders per day - all operations included ( internal , external , warranty , & ) .
Monument size can be used whenever a Delivery Outlet
All existing Nissan signs shall be removed and there shall never be sites with a
Those who plan to do their own work should , of course , be competent mechanics and possess the special tools described in the Service Manual .
9 Neither two Nissan Wordmarks nor two Dealer Name / Delivery Outlet signs
This area can be shared with other Nissan activities such as Sales or After sales as long as it is situated in the building where delivery is done .
There must be one operational person in control of the site that must have proven experience in the motor industry ( period to be specified by the NSC ) .
There is a New Nissan Retail VI compliant brand panel for each customer reception ( one for Sales and one for After Sales ) .
This manual should be considered a permanent part of the motorcycle and should remain with the motorcycle when it is sold .
All the new Nissan retail VI elements required according to the present minimum selectivity criteria must be ordered before end of 2006 .
NISSAN WORDMARK ARTWORK
If the Nissan showroom is not directly visible , there must be a sign indicating the Nissan showroom in all internal customer touch points .
RENAULT SECONDARY FRONTAGE
If the Flags are to be used on the same site as existing Renault Flags they must be specified in the same numbers and size as the Renault Flags .
Kawasaki strongly recommends that all operators of this vehicle enroll in a motorcycle rider training program to attain awareness of the mental and physical requirements necessary for safe motorcycle operation .
If the site is multibranded , the Nissan brand panel must not be more than 20 % less prominent than that of another make .
× 53.6 mm
Mr . Rob Daamen
The minimum number of work bays is 3 .
The size of the display area in the Nissan showroom must be 30m ² minimum per passenger car displayed and 40m ² minimum for 4x4 / SUV and LCV .
The site must have a parts ordering system compatible with Nissan system .
Nissan dedicated phone number
Please enter , in the answer field , the number of Nissan demonstration vehicles .
Nissan parts counter
Nissan New European Retail Design – Standards Manual and NE RVI Minimum
The after sales reception area dedicated to Nissan is new Nissan retail VI compliant ( new Nissan retail VI counter made up of at least 2 modules , Nissan Brand wall or Nissan Brand panel as a minimum ) .
In any case , service receptionists in a given site must use clothes from the same range .
All interior directional and location signs must be new Nissan retail VI compliant .
Nissan dedicated Sales area
In the case of a Dual Headquarters ( Nissan and Renault ) Secondary Signs should be manufactured in a neutral style and colour and not favour either brand .
The Nissan accounts must be yearly reported to the NSC according to the NSC specifications .
If the site is multibranded , this area should either be Nissan branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
NISSAN BRAND SYMBOL
Louvres may only be used on a Main Dealer new car showroom or a Full Secondary
For after sales activity , there is , as a minimum , a new Nissan Retail VI compliant Entrance panel .
If the site is multibranded , the Nissan entrance statement or entrance panel must not be more than 20 % less prominent than that of another brand .
COMPANY OR FACILITY NAME ( ROMAN LETTERING ) NISSANAG BOLD NVB 01
SPECULAR ANODISED LOUVRE
The red Nissan Wordmark can be used as a direct replacement to any existing silver versions subject to Planning Approval .
Contact :
Please enter , in the answer field , the size of the Nissan dedicated showroom .
Congratulations on your purchase of a new Kawasaki motorcycle .
OPTION 3
If the site sells and / or repair more than 1 brand , the Nissan activity must be analysed in a separate account .
No part of this publication may be reproduced without our prior written permission .
If the site is multibranded , all furniture in the customer areas shared with another brand shall be either Nissan branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
DELETE And used car facilities - and NE RVI Minimum
In the areas shared with another make , these elements must either be Nissan branded , or both neutral and not branded to any brands .
If the sales and after-sales reception is the same , there must be at least one New Nissan Retail VI compliant brand panel .
The Nissan activity must be reported according to the NSC specifications ( content and frequency ) if applicable .
There is a minimum of 2 full time designated technicians .
There is a minimum of 5 parking places for customers coming to collect their new vehicle .
Your new motorcycle is the product of Kawasaki ' s advanced engineering , exhaustive testing , and continuous striving for superior reliability , safety and performance .
There must be one sales dedicated desk with 3 chairs per designated salesman in the sales customer area of the Nissan dedicated showroom .
The Nissan dedicated showroom must be at least 160 m ² by the end of 2007 .
NISSANBRAND SYMBOL 3D
Delivery Outlet is positioned on the left and the Nissan Wordmark on the right
Neither two Nissan Wordmarks nor two Dealer Name Signs should appear at the
In case the site is multibranded and the workshop is shared with another brand , workshop staff handling Nissan car repairs must either wear Nissan branded clothes or neutral and non-branded clothes .
The Nissan Service Only Dealer does only carry out service and maintenance and has
Alternatively , Louvres may be extended to a secondary elevation and used to
2m .
The site must carry at least 2 new Nissan retail VI compliant poster frames located in the Nissan sales customer area of the Nissan showroom .
Nissan Parts Ordering system
The Nissan showroom is entirely dedicated to the Nissan Brand .
In case the site is muItibranded , the parts receptionists must either wear Nissan branded clothes or neutral and non-branded clothes .
Each vehicle displayed in the showroom has a new Nissan retail VI compliant lectern .
New Nissan retail VI implementation
NISSAN SECONDARY FRONTAGE
The candidate repairer and / or the candidate repairer management must not have been terminated by Nissan in the previous 5 years for non compliance with the minimum authorised repairer selectivity criteria .
Nissan mandatory SSTs , equipment & tooling list
For those who would like more detailed information on their Kawasaki Motorcycle , a Service Manual is available for purchase from any authorized Kawasaki motorcycle dealer .
POWDER COATED
The size is dependent on the existing Wordmark and can be faced fixed at high level at the top of the building or at roof level using a suitable framework structure but subject to local Building Control .
If the site carries two brands or more , the length of the louvres , Dealer name and Nissan brand wordmark must be at least 33 % of the total showroom glazed facade ( or delivery building facade if delivery activity only ) .
5 The number of Nissan Wordmarks will always be equal to or more than the
In any case , all workshop staff repairing Nissan cars in a given site must use clothes from the same range .
and panel and NISSAN Wordmark .
For after sales , there are , as a minimum , dealer name and Nissan brand wordmark on the facade of the site .
NISSAN WORKWEAR
The Nissan dedicated showroom must be at least 190 m ² by the end of 2007 .
The Nissan Sales KPIs will have to be reported according to the NSC guidelines ( frequency according to the NSC ) .
OPTION 1
The printer can be shared .
The workshop must be kept clean and tidy through proper and regular housekeeping activities , including maintaining clean bay boundaries , benches and fittings .
This publication includes the latest information available at the time of printing .
Nissan dedicated showroom size
There is a New Nissan Retail VI compliant pylon if planning permission allows .
There is at least one courtesy vehicle for Nissan customers .
The minimum sign requirement includes a Nissan Wordmark , Dealer Name letters ,
By the end of January of each year the Service manager will successfully complete a staff management and development practices training course offered either by Nissan or an accredited organization .
For sales or delivery outlets , there is a New Nissan Retail VI compliant Entrance statement if planning permission allows .
mixture of old and new Nissan signs .
There is one telephone number dedicated to Nissan customers .
80m ,
In order to ship Kawasaki vehicles as efficiently as possible , they are partially disassembled before crating . Since some of the most commonly removed parts have a direct bearing on a vehicle ’ s reliability and safety , conscientious pre-sale assembly and preparation becomes extremely important . Good setup procedures can prevent needless warranty claims and give customers a greater sense of confidence in Kawasaki and their Kawasaki Dealers .
The site must carry at least 1 new Nissan retail VI compliant Color and Trims display located in the Nissan sales customer area of the Nissan showroom .
Dedicated Sales customer area in the Nissan showroom ( excluding display area )
In areas shared with another brand , these elements must either be Nissan branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
The showroom dedicated to the Nissan Brand must be properly illuminated ( 500 lux at 1,5 meter - min 2 meters from shop windows ) .
The minimum size of the Nissan display area in the showroom must be 130 m ² .
Bore × Stroke
The workshop must possess complete technical documentation for all Nissan vehicles up to and including 10 years past end of production ( EOP ) to include diagnosis and repair method manuals , Service manual , wiring diagrams , electronic body repair manuals , electronic body-builder manuals , electronic collision time repair manuals and parts catalogues ( FAST , NISCAT ) in the latest version available .
The business must have , at each site , an information system link ( Dealer Communication System ) dedicated to Nissan activities and compatible with the NSC systems .
The Nissan Authorised Repair Shop has the same services as the Nissan Service
Please enter , in the additional input field , the number of courtesy vehicles for Nissan customers .
There is a minimum of 4 displayed vehicles in the showroom .
Passenger - and NE RVI Minimum Selectivity Requirements - One sign per Customer Parking space
The mix of display vehicles should respect NSC specifications , with a minimum of 4 different models .
Each customer parking place must be identified through distinctive new Nissan Retail VI compliant signage .
This manual offers many safe riding tips , but its purpose is not to provide instruction in all the techniques and skills required to ride a motorcycle safely .
The Nissan dedicated showroom glazed facade must be at least 9 m long .
Fascia , NISSAN Wordmark , Dealername
In all cases the Wordmark is illuminated using LED ’ s therefore reducing maintenance costs .
This after sales waiting area can be shared with other Nissan activities such as sales .
The site must carry at least 1 new Nissan retail VI compliant brochure holder located in the Nissan sales customer area of the Nissan showroom .
As Option 1 above but accepted
60m .
contractual relationship with a main Nissan Dealer .
In addition , the new Nissan Retail VI compliant entrance panel must not be more than 20 % less prominent than that of another brand .
The NISSAN Brand Symbol should only appear on a Main Dealership new car
1 Dealer Name or Delivery Outlet letters and Nissan Wordmark in general to be
3 The E .
To be used as a substitute to the Pylon where Planning Approval is refused or visibility to the building is restricted .
6 The distance between the Nissan Wordmark and the Dealer Name / Delivery
A New Nissan Retail VI compliant panel & wave entrance element is acceptable in case of space / architectural constraints .
The minimum number of lifts is 2 .
For any entrances to workshop , neutral signage can be used instead of corporate identities items .
The Nissan Service or Rapid Service only Dealer has a contractual
reversed in order to avoid the conflict with the Nissan Brand Symbol on the
For sales or delivery outlets , there are new Nissan Retail VI compliant louvres , dealer name and Nissan brand wordmark on the new vehicle showroom ( or delivery building facade if delivery activity only ) glazed facade of the site .
The Nissan Secondary dealership has all services as the Main Dealer but has a
1 An Entrance Statement Panel ( ESP ) will be used for Delivery Outlets .
External new Nissan Retail VI guidelines
In case the site is muItibranded , customer parking place signs must be either Nissan branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
Every after-sales manager hired after 01 / 01 / 06 will successfully complete a staff management and development practices training course offered either by Nissan or an accredited organization .
All the site communication issued to Nissan customers should be in line with new Nissan VI guidelines .
In all case the signs are constructed of ACM and have a horizontal striped finish ( 30mm pitch ) which is achieved by spray painting and not using the horizontal striped vinyl as specified on the Pylon and Directional signs .
The Nissan Main Dealer additional outlet has the same range of services as the Main
POSITIONING OF THE NISSAN WORDMARK TO THE BUILDING : -
Flags can be used at the entrances to the site and are the same size and specification as those detailed in the Design and Application Rules – Flags .
1,410 mm
If there is already a new Nissan Retail VI compliant Entrance statement , a new Nissan Retail VI compliant Entrance panel is not needed .
( designated = fully trained to Nissan products and complete a staff management and development practices training course ) .
Please enter , in the answer field , the size of the Nissan display area .
present the Nissan Wordmark .
If the showroom and / or the delivery building only have one entrance and this entrance is shared with another brand , there must be a new Nissan Retail VI compliant entrance panel as a minimum .
OPTION 2
All retail fixtures must be new Nissan Retail VI compliant .
This trade counter must either be Nissan branded or neutral and not branded to any make .
Bore × stroke
If these signs are in areas shared with another make , they must be Nissan branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
Nissan Rapid Service Pylon , Entrance
10 Previous Network 2000 support construction is to be reused as much as
Mitered angles to continue
In any case the trade counter must be identified to Nissan by at least a location sign .
The candidate company and / or the candidate management must not have been terminated by Nissan in the previous 5 years for non-performance or non compliance with standards related to the minimum selectivity criteria applicable to the site .
The minimum size of the Nissan display area in the showroom must be 160 m ² .
From Jan 2006 the workshop must have a permanent subscription to The official Nissan Europe technical literature distribution process .
The workshop must have a diagnostic tool capable of diagnosing all Nissan vehicle breakdowns / problems for all the vehicles marketed in European Union for the past 10 years , as well as the reprogramming of on-board computers .
This reception area can be shared with other Nissan activities such as Sales .
3 The words NISSAN , Dealer ( or any translation ) , additions like Ltd , SAS , BV .
NISSAN SERVICE OR RAPID SERVICE ONLY DEALER
If the site carries two brands or more , the length of the showroom glazed facade dedicated to Nissan must be at least 33 % of the total showroom glazed facade .
If the workshop is dedicated to Nissan , the workshop staff must wear clothes in line with new Nissan retail VI guidelines .
This waiting area can be shared with other Nissan activities ' waiting areas .
If the signs are in areas shared with another brand , they must either be Nissan branded or neutral and not branded to any brands .
Flags can be used instead of , as well as in conjunction with the Pylon .
- With 1 New Nissan retail VI compliant lectern per new car stating exposed model information and price and C02 consumption information ,
Internal new Nissan Retail VI guidelines
Bodyshop and mechanical workers must use overalls clearly identified to each brand .
0 LOUVRES & BRACKETS
Every sales manager hired after 01 / 01 / 06 must successfully complete a staff management and development practices training course offered either by Nissan or an accredited organization .
Delivery Outlet letters shall take preference and the Nissan Wordmark shall be
The Nissan workshop KPIs will have to be reported according to the NSC guidelines ( See appendix D for minimum KPIs , frequency according to the NSC ) .
There are no outdated Nissan posters or advertising displayed in the site .
7 In the case when both Nissan Wordmark and the Dealer Name / Delivery Outlet
Accepted alternative to Option 1 but
Only the Nissan Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters can be placed on the
Dedication of the Nissan showroom
There is , as a minimum , a new Nissan Retail VI compliant projecting sign with the Brand symbol ( if planning permission allows ) .
14 Rows of Louvres relate to size of Nissan Wordmark and Dealer Name Letters ,
COMPANY OR FACILITY NAME ( ROMAN LETTERING ) NISSANAG BOLD .
0 DEALER NAME or DELIVERY OUTLET LETTERS AND
All Point-of-Sale material ( including internal product / brand communication ) in the dedicated showroom , the Nissan customer area and on the Nissan dedicated showroom glazed facade must be in line with the new Nissan Retail VI .
If the parts reception is only used for Nissan customers , the parts receptionists must wear clothes in line with new Nissan retail VI guidelines .
four times the height of the Nissan Wordmark letters .
If the site is multibranded , the lengh of the Dealer name and Nissan brand wordmark must be at least 33 % of the total facade of the site .
In case the site is multibranded , the service receptionists handling Nissan customers must either wear Nissan branded clothes or neutral and non-branded clothes .
The Nissan vehicle pictures exposed in the customer areas must always be approved by the NSC .
This trade counter must be clearly Nissan identified and must comply with new Nissan Retail VI .
New Nissan VI compliance of communication and documents
Please enter , in the additional input field , the % of the total showroom glazed facade dedicated to Nissan .
4 The Nissan Wordmark and the Dealer Name letters are the only permissible
The Nissan dedicated showroom must be 2 .
10 Bottom edges of Nissan Wordmark and Dealer name / Delivery Oyutlet should
Soft or distilled water must be used with the antifreeze ( see below for antifreeze ) in the cooling system .
B . Turn Signal Switch
Your Kawasaki engine is designed to use only unleaded gasoline .
Kawasaki does not manufacture sidecars or trailers for motorcycles and cannot predict the effects of such accessories on handling or stability , but can only warn that the effects can be adverse and that Kawasaki cannot assume responsibility for the results of such unintended use of the motorcycle .
It is mixed at 50 % and has the freezing point of – 35 ° C .
Miscellaneous : Make sure that all nuts and bolts are tight and that all safety related parts are in good condition .
This is normal .
Pushing the MODE button shifts the display through the following four modes : CLOCK , ODO , and TRIP A / B . When the ignition key is turned to “ ON ” , all the LCD segments are displayed for three seconds , then the clock or meters operate normally depending on the mode selected .
Be careful not to use the hazard lights for more than 30 minutes , otherwise the battery may become totally discharged .
B . Rear View Mirror
If the warning light and warning symbol flash , have the FI system checked by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
The Kawasaki Clean Air System ( KCA ) is a secondary air suction system that helps the exhaust gases to burn more completely .
Be sure the upper end of the clutch outer cable is fully seated in its fitting , or it could slip into place later , creating enough cable play to prevent clutch disengagement , resulting in a hazardous riding condition .
° BTDC @ 4,800 r / min ( rpm )
Check the coolant level if it is between the F ( Full ) and L ( Low ) level lines .
Always use a gasoline with an octane rating equal to , or higher than , RON 91 .
If coolant containing corrosion and rust inhibitor chemicals is not used , over a period of time , the cooling system accumulates rust and scale in the water jacket and radiator .
Spark plug removal should be done by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
OFF
TRIP B : 0.0 – 9999.9
If you leave the P ( Park ) position on for a long time ( one hour ) , the battery may become totally discharged .
B . Ignition Key
30 N · m ( 3.0 kgf · m )
Blank keys are available at your Kawasaki dealers .
Downshifting should be done below 5,000 r / min ( rpm ) for each gear .
When using the side stand , turn the handlebar to the left .
Engine Oil : To avoid engine seizure and resulting loss of control , make sure that the oil level is at the upper level line .
B . L ( Low ) Level Line
If it cannot be done , use the nuts at the lower end of the clutch cable .
In some cases , improper installation or use of accessories , or motorcycle modification , will void the motorcycle warranty can negatively affect performance , and can even be illegal .
Windshield
LOADING AND ACCESSORIES INFORMATION
B . Km Display
B . Starter Button
Make sure the area is well ventilated and free from any source of flame or sparks ; this includes any appliance with a pilot light .
In some cases , improper installation or use of accessories , or motorcycle modification , will void the motorcycle warranty .
Open and close the throttle a few times to make sure that the idle speed does not change .
In dusty , rainy , or muddy conditions , the air cleaner element should be serviced more frequently than the recommended interval by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
We strongly recommend that all parts and accessories you add to your motorcycle be genuine Kawasaki components .
Do not use the negative ( – ) terminal of the battery .
This motorcycle has one master key with a red head and two user-keys with black heads .
12 V 0.5 / 4.1 W
If the warning light and warning symbol flash on , have the immobilizer system checked by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Failure to perform these checks every day before you ride may result in serious damage or a severe accident .
Clutch lever play 2 – 3 mm .
ON
B . Upper Level Line
If you leave the switch on for a long time , the battery may become totally discharged .
Slack 30 – 35 mm .
If this is not practical , a 12 volt booster battery and jumper cables may be used to start the engine .
B . Bolt
Check to see that the handlebar turns freely but has no play .
B . Plug
Connect another jumper cable from the negative ( – ) terminal of the booster battery to your motorcycle footpeg or other unpainted metal surface .
If there is any irregularity , have the clutch cable checked by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Strap
Ordinarily , the ignition switch should be used to stop the engine .
B . Oil Pressure Warning Light
Have the cooling system inspected by your authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Be sure to install the plug in the drain hose after draining .
Make sure that the baggage will not move around while you are riding .
B . Fuel Tank
B . Slot
The KCA System allows extra air into the exhaust system so that the spent fuel charge can continue to burn .
Turn out the accelerator cable adjusting nut until a play of 2 – 3 mm is obtained at the throttle grip .
The initial maintenance is vitally important and must not be neglected .
Remove the cap from the reserve tank and add coolant through the filler opening to the F ( Full ) level line .
Check that the throttle grip play is correct by lightly turning the throttle grip back and forth .
– 0.9 mm
D . From Booster Battery Negative ( – ) Terminal
You should have the ABS checked by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
The table shows maximum recommended engine speed during the break-in period .
Do not reverse polarity by connecting positive ( + ) to negative ( – ) or a battery explosion and serious damage to the electrical system may occur .
Kawasaki Parts and Accessories have been specially designed for use on Kawasaki motorcycles .
A break-in period of 160 km is necessary to establish normal tire traction .
Use a permanent type of antifreeze ( soft water and ethylene glycol plus corrosion and rust inhibitor chemicals for aluminum engines and radiators ) in the cooling system .
Coolant Level Inspection
B . Starter Lockout Switch
– 0.5 N · m ( 0.035 – 0.05 kgf · m )
Check to see that they are correctly adjusted and functioning properly .
Coolant : To avoid overheating , check that the coolant level is at the upper level line .
Check that the engine stop switch is in the position .
Change / Replacement Items
Should be serviced by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Make sure the transmission is in neutral .
B . Clutch Lever Play
If the motorcycle has just been used , wait several minutes for all the oil to drain down .
Do not install accessories or carry baggage that impairs the performance of the motorcycle .
All electrical equipment can be used .
If the warning light flashes have its cause checked by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
On rainy days , rely more on the throttle to control vehicle speed and less on the front and rear brakes .
Pull up the rear end of the seat to make sure it is securely locked .
Check the radiator fins for obstruction by insects or mud .
The first 1,600 km that the motorcycle is ridden is designated as the break-in period .
Periodic Inspection ( Chassis Related Items )
This Kawasaki KX has a 4-stroke engine that requires a gasoline .
Make sure the ignition key is turned to OFF .
B . Upper Hexagonal Area
Front
Use coolant containing corrosion inhibitors made specifically for aluminum engines and radiators in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer .
If the indicator light comes on , have the DFI system checked by an authorized Kawasaki dealer , When the indicator light flashes , first turn the ignition key to “ OFF ” and then back to “ ON ” .
If a torque wrench or required Kawasaki special tool is not available , this item should be serviced by a Kawasaki dealer .
Do not downshift at too high an r / min ( rpm ) to avoid damage to the engine from overrevving .
Before changing lanes , look over your shoulder to make sure the way is clear .
Have the coolant changed by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Weight of rider , passenger , baggage , and accessories must not exceed 180 kg .
Always use recommended standard tires for this motorcycle .
Periodic Inspection ( Engine Related Items )
Push the lever forward and turn the adjuster to align the number with the arrow mark on the lever holder .
Inspection and adjustment should be done by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
km × 1,000
When shifting down to a lower gear , do not shift at such a high speed that the engine r / min ( rpm ) jumps excessively .
: The coolant temperature warning light in the speedometer goes on whenever the coolant temperature rises to 115 ° C when the motorcycle is in operation .
Disconnect the negative ( – ) cable from the motorcycle first .
B . Seat Lock
If the motorcycle is not used carefully during this period , you may very well end up with a “ broken down ” instead of a “ broken in ” motorcycle after a few thousand kilometers .
Stopping the Motorcycle in an Emergency
Incorrect loading , improper installation or use of accessories , or modification of your motorcycle may result in an unsafe riding condition .
Electrical Equipment : Make sure that the headlight , tail / brake light , turn signals , horn , etc . , all work properly .
The throttle should also be used judiciously to avoid skidding the rear wheel from too rapid acceleration or deceleration .
Your Kawasaki Motorcycle has been designed and manufactured to provide you optimum safety and convenience .
Clutch lever play 2 – 3 mm
After refueling , make sure the fuel tank cap is closed securely .
Lubricate if dry .
B . Odometer
Kawasaki strongly recommends you do not use the master key for daily driving .
B . Bolts
Contact your local authorities for approved disposal methods or possible recycling .
Slack 25 – 35 mm
Make sure that you have not adversely affected any lighting components , road clearance , banking capability ( i . e . , lean angle ) , control operation , wheel travel , front fork movement , or any other aspect of the motorcycle ' s operation .
Furthermore , any adverse effects on motorcycle components caused by the use of such accessories will not be remedied under warranty .
Be sure to correct any of these conditions before riding .
If there is difficulty removing the seat , be sure to insert the key all the way and to push down strongly on the rear end of the seat while turning the key clockwise .
Because a motorcycle is sensitive to changes in weight and aerodynamic forces , you must take extreme care in carrying cargo , passengers and / or in the fitting of additional accessories .
This motorcycle was not intended to be equipped with a sidecar or to be used to tow any trailer or other vehicle .
Use only unleaded gasoline .
If the lowest ambient temperature encountered falls below the freezing point of water , use permanent antifreeze in the coolant to protect the cooling system against engine and radiator freeze-up , as well as from rust and corrosion .
For more detailed information about ABS , see the Anti-lock Brake System ( ABS ) section in the How to Ride the Motorcycle chapter .
Throttle grip play 2 – 3 mm
B . Mark
Start the engine .
Improper maintenance can create a dangerous situation known as throttle failure .
6-speed , return shift
Inspection
B . Projection
Make sure that km or mile according to local regulations is correctly displayed before riding .
B . Reserve Tank
B . Locknut
Check that steering and suspension components , axles , and all controls are properly tightened or fastened .
Before you ride the motorcycle , make sure that the motorcycle is not overloaded and that you have followed these instructions .
Check that the side stand is up .
TRIP A : 0.0 – 999.9
D . Ignition Switch
B . Speedometer
Oil Level Inspection
To protect the cooling system ( consisting of the aluminum engine and radiator ) from rust and corrosion , the use of corrosion and rust inhibitor chemicals in the coolant is essential .
Engine vacuum synchronization must be checked and adjusted periodically in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
In addition to the above , at 1 000 km ( 600 mi ) it is extremely important that the owner have the initial maintenance service performed by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Ignition Switch
If parking inside a garage or other structure , be sure it is well ventilated and the motorcycle is not close to any source of flame or sparks ; this includes any appliance with a pilot light .
However , in order to fully benefit from Kawasaki ' s safety engineering and craftsmanship , it is essential that you , the owner and operator , properly maintain your motorcycle and become thoroughly familiar with its operation .
When stopping , always apply both brakes at the same time .
Air suction valve removal and inspection should be carried out by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
If “ knocking " or “ pinging " occurs , try a different brand of gasoline or higher octane grade .
Rear
Remove the windshield .
Do not obstruct or deflect airflow through the radiator by installing unauthorized accessories in front of the radiator or behind the cooling fan .
If the tachometer needle does not operate correctly , have it inspected by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Replace any gaskets with new ones .
1,250 – 1,350 r / min ( rpm )
B . Adjuster
When stopping near traffic at night , you can leave the taillight on for greater visibility by turning the ignition key to the P ( park ) position .
B . Oil Filler Cap
In selecting and using accessories , and in loading the motorcycle , you are personally responsible for your own safety and the safety of other persons involved .
B . RESET Button
Every 42,000 km
B . ON position
Please note that Kawasaki cannot assume any responsibility for damage resulting from incorrect or improper adjustment done by the owner .
Due to friction plate wear and clutch cable stretch over a long period of use , the clutch operation should be checked each day before riding the motorcycle , and in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
In order for the engine , transmission , and clutch to function properly , maintain the engine oil at the proper level , and change the oil and replace the oil filter in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
B . Throttle Grip Play
With the exception of genuine Kawasaki Parts and Accessories , Kawasaki has no control over the design or application of accessories .
Headlight
This motorcycle is equipped with an immobilizer system to protect your motorcycle from theft .
Check that the clutch lever operates properly and that the inner cable slides smoothly .
Air suction valve removal and inspection should be done by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Throttle grip play 2 – 3 mm .
B . From Booster Battery Positive ( + ) Terminal
Always replace any gasket with a new one .
Connect the capped wire to the ( + ) terminal , and then connect the black wire to the ( – ) terminal .
Remove the cotter pin , and loosen the axle nut .
Use coolant containing corrosion inhibitors made specifically for aluminum engines and radiators in accordance with the instruction of the manufacture .
In accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart , measure the depth of the tread with a depth gauge , and replace any tire that has worn down to the minimum allowable tread depth .
Use the same manufacturer ' s tires on both front and rear wheels .
FREQUENCY
If it drops below 12.8 volts , the battery should be charged using an appropriate charger ( check with your Kawasaki dealer ) .
Any riding conditions that increase engine temperature will further reduce idling time before coolant loss occurs .
225 kPa ( 2.25 kgf / cm ² )
B . ( – ) Terminal
B . Pilot Screw Adjuster D ( 57001 – 1588 )
Always use a gasoline with an octane rating equal to , or higher than , RON 95 .
Check inside of the inlet tract and carburetor for dirt .
Carry out the general lubrication ( see p . 125 ) and make necessary adjustments .
20 N · m ( 2.0 kgf · m )
After washing use a soft cloth to gently dry plastic parts .
If unavailable , use equivalent engine oil in accordance with the following table .
The coolant originally filled into the cooling system contains 50 % of a permanent , ethylene-glycol-based antifreeze , has a freezing point of – 35 ° C and a green appearance .
The standard setting positions of the rebound damping force adjuster for an average-build rider of 68 kg with no passenger and no accessories are as follows :
B . Clutch Cable
Fluid Level Inspection
Frequent and proper care of your Kawasaki motorcycle will enhance its appearance , optimize overall performance , and extend its useful life .
If damaged , replace the element .
B . Receptacles
B . Adjusting Nut
B . Rebound Damping Force Adjuster
Use a leather cleaner / treatment to clean and care for leather accessories .
B . Cotter Pin
Since it is dangerous to operate the motorcycle under such conditions , have the brake checked immediately by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Grommet
Pad replacement should be done by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Filler Neck
For safety , replace the chain with only the standard chain any time it wears to over 323mm , measured over a 20-link portion pulled straight with 98N ( 10kgf ) of tension .
B . Drain Plug ( M10 )
Yuasa 1.5 Amp Automatic charger
Do not obstruct or deflect airflow by installing unauthorized accessories in front of the radiator .
Wear Inspection
1,385 mm
Coated aluminum should be washed with a mild neutral detergent and finished with a spray polish .
Do not use warm water as it accelerates the chemical reaction of the salt .
Have the brake fluid changed by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
° BTDC @ 1,800 r / min ( rpm )
Apply a suitable wrench to the spark plug .
Use a soft cloth or sponge to wash your motorcycle .
For each front and rear disc brake caliper , if the thickness of either pad is less than 1 mm , replace both pads in the caliper as a set .
If your motorcycle has leather accessories , special care must be taken .
For safety , use only the standard chain .
B . Projections
If any doubt about the rear shock absorber , it should be done by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Operation with an improperly adjusted , incorrectly routed , or damaged cable could result in an unsafe riding condition .
After racing , first clean the motorcycle ( see p . 123 ) , then inspect the entire motorcycle with special attention to the air cleaner , carburetor , brakes , etc .
When installing the breather hose , make sure the arrow on the valve points toward the fuel tank cap .
– 0.15 mm
Make sure to install the air valve cap securely .
B . Pilot Screw Adjuster ( P . N . 57001-1292 )
B . Screwdriver
Be sure to turn both adjusters by the same number of turns .
If a fuse fails during operation , inspect the electrical system to determine the cause , and then replace it with a new fuse of proper amperage .
If “ knocking ” or “ pinging ” occurs , try a different brand of gasoline or higher octane grade .
The standard setting position for an average-build rider of 68 kg with no passenger and no accessories is No . 5 .
If damaged , replace the element or it will allow dirt into the carburetor .
4-speed , constant-mesh , return shift
Sulfation occurs when the battery is left in a discharged condition for an extended time .
Electrical accessories , such as digital clocks and computer memory , also draw current from the battery even when the key is switched off .
Check the cooling hoses for cracks or deterioration , and the connections for looseness in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
If the engine fails starting , open the throttle fully and depress the kick pedal slowly about 4 – 5 times to clear too rich fuel mixtures in the engine .
Check the coolant level each day before riding the motorcycle , and replenish coolant if the level is low .
B . High Level Line
To avoid a fire or explosion , do not use gasoline or a low-flash-point solvent to clean the element .
If there is any irregularity , have the drive chain and / or the sprockets replaced by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Check that the throttle grip has 2 – 3 mm of play and turns smoothly .
Do not use fluid from a container that has been left open or that has been unsealed for a long time .
So it is false economy and unsafe to use the tires until they are bald .
B . Element Frame
If any doubt about the front fork , it should be done by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Hot starter lever or choke knob is used as following table
For more details , ask your Kawasaki dealer .
After the adjustment is made , start the engine and check that the clutch does not slip and that it releases properly .
Rotate the rear wheel to inspect the drive chain for damaged rollers , and loose pins and links .
Be sure to check the tightness of nuts and bolts , oil leakage , and any irregularities .
B . Wrench
If the spark plug electrodes are corroded , or damaged , or if the insulator is cracked , replace the plug .
Brake Wear Inspection
Kawasaki-recommended chargers are :
Use heavy-duty brake fluid only from a container marked DOT4 .
Periodic Replacement ( Engine and Chassis Related Item )
Use only unleaded gasoline with an octane rating equal to or higher than that shown in the table .
B . Worn Teeth
The maximum recommended load in addition to vehicle weight is 180 kg , including rider , passenger , baggage , and accessories .
B . ON Position
B . Oil Drain Plug ( M10 )
Contact your local authorities for approved disposal methods .
Fit the plug cap securely onto the spark plug , and pull the cap lightly to make sure that it is properly installed .
If a torque wrench is not available , this item should be serviced by a Kawasaki dealer .
Do not use an automotive-type quick charger that may overcharge the battery and damage it .
To ensure safe handling and stability , use only the recommended standard tires for replacement , inflated to the standard pressure .
Check the spark plug lead is not damaged , or correctly routed .
Soft or distilled water must be used with the antifreeze in the cooling system .
The tire and rim form a leakproof unit by making airtight contacts at the tire chamfers and the rim flanges instead of using an inner tube .
Cylinder Head Cover
B . Hot Starter Cable
When any following parts have been replaced , the same break-in procedure as the new motorcycle must be carried out for one hour or 20 km :
B . Lower Level Line
General lubrication - perform
B . Seat Bolt
If your motorcycle is only used occasionally or for short periods of time , the battery is more likely to discharge .
Be sure to fully check the tightness of nuts and bolts , oil leakage , and any irregularities , especially , each cable elongation , brake play , chain slack and spoke tightness .
Furthermore , warning the engine up excessively before operation , or leaving idling with the hot engine temperature after operation results in the engine overheating , too .
Replace any gaskets or O-ring with their new ones .
Check the oil level and oil leakage .
Installing the ( – ) cable to the ( + ) terminal of the battery or the ( + ) cable to the ( – ) terminal of the battery can seriously damage the electrical system .
If the above chargers are not available , use equivalent one .
B . Duct Groove
If the spark plug is replaced , use the genuine Kawasaki spark plug .
B . Failed
Disconnect the wires from the battery , first from the ( – ) terminal and then the ( + ) terminal .
B . Wing Bolt
B . Water Pump Cover
B . View From Back Side
Before installation , check the element for damage such as tears , hardening , or shrinkage .
See Page
Use a soft cloth to dry your motorcycle .
B . Rear Axle Shaft
1.0 mm
B . Fuses
Saturate the element with a high-quality foam air filter oil and make sure that the oil is evenly applied throughout the element .
If needed , use a mild degreaser to remove any oil or grease build up .
If the engine performance drops , try replacing the spark plug to regain performance .
Do not install tube-type tires on tubeless rims .
Covering your motorcycle with a high quality , breathable motorcycle cover will help protect its finish from harmful UV rays , pollutants , and reduce the amount of dust reaching its surfaces .
Oil filter - replace
Furthermore , warming the engine up excessively before operation , or leaving idling with the hot engine temperature after operation results in the engine overheating , too .
Remove the radiator cap in two steps .
B . Breather Hose
Be sure that the wire connections are clean .
If it does not , ask your authorized Kawasaki dealer to inspect the front brake light switch .
Turn the idling adjusting screw to adjust the idling speed 1,750 – 1,850 r / min ( rpm ) by using the engine revolution tester ( The tester should be followed by the method described by the manufacture ) .
Steering stem bearing - grease
Should be serviced by referring to the Service Manual or an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Weight
If the oil filter is to be replaced , remove the oil filter cartridge and replace it with a new one .
Do not use any substitute for the standard fuse .
B . Outer Electrode
× 62.1 mm
B . Notch
7.0 N · m ( 0.7 kgf · m )
Always use non-abrasive wax and cleaner / polisher .
TO PROTECT THE FUTURE OF YOUR SPORT , MAKE SURE YOU USE YOUR MOTORCYCLE LEGALLY , SHOW CONCERN FOR THE ENVIRONMENT , AND RESPECT THE RIGHTS OF OTHER PEOPLE .
B . Check Valve
Replace , add , adjust , clean or torque if necessary .
Clean the element in a well-ventilated area , and make sure that there are no sparks or flames anywhere near the working area ; this includes any appliance with a pilot light .
B . Pedal Travel
Replace the oil filter element with a new one .
B . Cap
Rear Shock Absorber Inspection
Be sure the engine and exhaust are cool before washing .
Disconnect the connector .
Inspect the throttle grip for smooth operation in all steering positions .
The standard setting positions of the rebound damping force adjuster and compression damping force adjuster for an average-build rider of 68 kg with no passenger and no accessories are as follows :
Turn the idling adjusting screw to adjust the idling speed 1,950 – 2,050 r / min ( rpm ) by using the engine revolution tester ( The tester should be followed by the method described by the manufacture ) .
Use oil of the same type and brand as those of the one that is already in the engine .
Consult your authorized Kawasaki dealer or local environmental waste agency for their proper disposal procedure .
It is an endless type and should not be cut for installation ; have it installed by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
If damaged , replace the hoses .
Be sure not to damage the rear shock absorber spring by the air cleaner duct clamp when bringing down the rear frame .
The standard adjusting nut position from the center of the upper rear shock absorber pivot point is 125.3 mm .
Maximum 0.15 mm
B . Silicone Sealant
B . Front Fork Protector
B . Push forward
Bring the piston to the Top Dead Center ( TDC ) of its compression stroke to inspect the valve clearance ( the position at the end of the compression stroke ) by aligning the top mark with the groove on the generator cover while turning the balancer bolt clockwise .
After making the adjustment , move the spring up and down to make sure that it is properly seated .
– 2 turns out
Before the first ride of each day of operation , check the tightness of the nuts and bolts shown below .
Tighten the chain either by using the chain adjusters or by hanging a 10 kg weight on the chain .
Check the air cleaner duct is installed securely .
Slowly turn the adjuster assembly clockwise until resistance is felt and check the clearance between the locknut and adjuster assembly for more than 1 mm .
Proper clutch lever play is 8 – 13 mm . Lever play increases with cable stretch and friction plate wear , requiring periodic adjustment .
Lubricate the drive chain after riding through rain or on wet track , or any time that the chain appears dry .
Make sure the front forks are fully extended with the front wheel off the ground when releasing the pressure .
B . Left Front Axle Clamp Bolts
Check that the gauge of the handlebar is out of the left and right handlebar clamps equally .
B . Silencer Cover Bolts
Replace the O-ring on the adjuster assembly with new ones and apply specified fork oil to the O-ring .
Bring the piston to the Top Dead Center ( TDC ) of its compression stroke to inspect the valve clearance ( the position at the end of the compression stroke ) by aligning the top mark with the groove on the generator cover while turning the rotor bolt counterclockwise .
B . Top Plug Wrench ( P . N . 57001-1645 )
B . Steering Head Nut
B . Clamp
B . Distance
Be sure the oil capacity is the same in both fork legs .
The torque of fork top plug is specified to 30 N · m ( 3.1 kgf · m ) however , when you use the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) , reduce the torque to 90 % of the specified value [ 27 N · m ( 2.8 kgf · m ) ] due to the distance between the center of the square hole , where the torque wrench is fitted , and that of the octagonal hole of the wrench .
Removal and installation of the rear shock absorber spring should be performed by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Compression Damping Adjuster for Low Speed
B . Other Friction Plates
B . Radiator Cover
If there are any such defects , replace the drive chain and / or the sprockets .
B . Cable Holder Cover
Loosen the locknut in the middle of the clutch cable , and turn the adjusting nut so that the clutch lever play is 8 – 13 mm .
B . Stem Nut Wrench ( P / N . 57001-1100 )
B . Friction or Steel Plate
B . Softer ( Counterclockwise )
B . Stem Nut Wrench ( P . N . 57001-1100 )
B . Friction Plate
Replace the O-ring on the base valve assembly and cylinder unit with new ones .
Check the each duct is installed securely , and the projection of the carburetor is aligned with the groove in the cylinder intake duct .
Sprocket Wear Inspection
B . Rear Brake Master Cylinder Mounting Bolts
B . Drain Plug
B . Axle Holder Bottom
B . Cracks
Clutch Spring Bolts
Check the handlebar for bent or crack .
More than 76.4 mm
Check the front brake for good braking power and no brake drag .
Make sure the tab of the air cleaner duct clamp is aligned with the groove in the air intake duct .
B . Top Plug Wrench , 49 mm ( P . N . 57001-1653 )
B . Tape Measure
Remove the clutch hub nut with using the clutch holder ( special tool ) to prevent the clutch hub from rotating .
Open and close the throttle a few times to make sure the grip operates correctly .
Raise the rear wheel off the ground using a jack ( special tool ) .
B . Block
If the silencer is badly damaged , dented , cracked or rusted , replace it .
B . Swingarm
Silencer Packing Replacement
Make sure the area is well-ventilated and free from any source of flame or sparks ; this includes any appliance with a pilot light .
A . Weight
Replace the silencer packing if the exhaust noise becomes too loud or engine performance drops .
100 kPa ( 1.0 kgf / cm ² )
Turning the adjuster 14 clicks counterclockwise from the fully seated position is the standard setting , turning it counterclockwise 20 or more clicks ( depending on the model ) is the softest setting .
B . Maximum Level Line
B . Clutch Cover
B . Air Cleaner Case
Test the braking power and check that there is no brake drag .
Tighten the front fork top plug with using the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) to the specified torque .
Use only heavy-duty brake fluid as follows .
Check if the locknut is completely screwed on to the piston rod .
B . Adjuster Assembly
D . 0.5 – 1 mm
B . Push Rod Holder Assembly
B . Clamp Bolts
Remove the bolts .
This motorcycle ' s rear suspension system is called “ UNI-TRAK ® ” and consists of a rear shock absorber unit , a swingarm , two lever rods and a lever .
– 417 mL
Check that the gauge on the handlebar is out of the left and right handlebar clamps equally .
Protect the axle holder with a rag when using a vise .
B . Chain Cover
B . Quick Rivets
This torque value [ 27 N · m ( 2.8 kgf · m ) ] is applicable when you use a torque wrench whose length gives leverage of approximately 310 mm between the grip point to the center of the coupling square .
Lubricate the areas shown in the illustrations of this section with either motor oil or regular grease , after each race and whenever the vehicle has been operated under wet or rainy conditions , especially after using a high-pressure spray washer .
However , a linkage system is used to achieve progressive springing characteristics .
B . Axle
B . Fork Spring
B . Clutch Pressure Plate
B . Left Front Axle Clamp Bolts ( Loosen )
Since overworn sprockets will cause a new chain to wear faster , inspect both the engine and rear sprockets whenever the chain is replaced , and replace them if necessary .
Always use nonabrasive products and apply them according to the instructions on the container .
B . Brake Caliper
Raise the outer tube and temporarily install the fork top plug to the outer tube using the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) .
Since it is impractical to measure the entire length of the chain , determine the degree of wear by measuring a 20-link section of the chain .
B . Tester
Measure the 20-link section on a straight part of the chain from the center of the 1st pin to the center of the 21st pin .
B . Base Valve Assembly
B . Groove
B . Push Rod Holder
Always make any damping adjustments in small steps and test their effects before using them in competition .
Make sure about 16 mm of push rod thread is exposed from the lock nut .
B . Cylinder Head Cover Bolts
C . Hook Wrenches ( P . N . 57001-1539 )
Proper hot starter lever play between the hot starter lever and holder is 0.5 – 1 mm . Lever play increases with cable stretch , and requires periodic adjustment .
B . Adjusting Bolt
Handlebar
Open and close the throttle a few times to make sure the idling speed does not change , and readjust if necessary .
Check the front brake for the proper brake effect , or no brake drag .
B . Bolt ( Remove )
B . Radial Runout
– 138.5 mm .
Starting failure or difficulties –
If any plates show signs of damage , replace all friction plates and steel plates as a set .
B . Handlebar Holder Nuts
Do not use the steel plate of 2.0 mm and 1.2 mm thickness at the same time .
B . Direction of Rotation
B . Cylinder Unit
80 kPa ( 0.8 kgf / cm ² ) –
B . Piston Rod
B . Hole
Check the brake and fuel hoses for cracks or deterioration , and the connections for looseness in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
B . Front Axle
This motorcycle ' s rear suspension system is called UNI-TRAK ® " and consists of a rear shock absorber unit , a swingarm , two lever rods and a lever .
250 kPa ( 2.50 kgf / cm ² )
Check for brake hose damage .
Visually inspect the sprocket teeth and replace the sprocket if its teeth are worn or damaged .
Steering Inspection
B . Minimum Level Line
B . Cylinder Head Cover Gasket
B . Caps
To check the tire air pressure , remove the air valve cap , and make sure to tighten the cap securely after checking the tire pressure .
B . Spring Preload Adjusting Nut
Make sure that the upper chain guide is bottomed to the cylinder head cover .
B . Shroud
Check for fluid leakage around the brake system fittings .
Temporarily tighten the fork top plug by using the top plug wrench , 49 mm ( special tool ) .
B . Camshaft Sprockets
Protect the axle holder with a soft jaw or heavy cloth when using a vise .
If any plate is warped over the service limit , replace it with a new one .
B . Groove on Generator Cover
B . Friction Plates
Slowly turn the adjuster assembly clockwise until resistance is felt and check the clearance between the lock nut and adjuster assembly for more than 1 mm .
Pump the fork tube several times to discharge the fork oil .
Be sure that the front tire does not touch the fender when the fork is fully compressed .
B . Gasket
Brake Pad Wear Inspection
B . Front Fork
B . Oil Holes
A . Fork Oil
When replacing the silencer packing assembly , first insert the silencer packing assembly into the silencer cover , and align the exhaust hole of the silencer end cover with the silencer packing assembly hole while turning the packing assembly .
– 370 mL
To prevent this , adjust the chain slack ( measured between the chain and the swingarm ) to 62 – 68 mm .
B . Lower Front Fork Clamp Bolts
Depending on the model , the fork compression damping adjuster has at least 22 positions .
B . Fuel Tap
If necessary , repair or replace by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
If the valve clearance is not within the specified range , adjust by an authorized Kawasaki dealer or a competent mechanic following the instructions in the Service Manual .
36.7 mm – 44.5 mm
B . Clutch Hub Nut
B . Carburetor Pulley
Check the front brake for proper brake effect or brake hose damage .
If the steel plates are replaced , measure the clutch plate assembly length , and use the steel plates in the following table so that the clutch plate assembly length is standard .
Visually inspect the upper and lower chain slippers on the swingarm and replace them if worn or damaged .
Depending on the model , the fork rebound damping adjuster has at least 20 positions .
B . Front Fork Top Plug
B . Bushing
B . Outer Tube
B . Cylinder Head Cover
Check the hose are securely connected and clamps are tightened correctly .
Use a mild detergent and sponge out dirt with plenty of water .
Valve Clearance Inspection
B . Lock Nut
Rear end feels soft at large jump –
Tighten the locknut fully and measure 10 – 12 mm as shown .
1 turns out – 1 turn out = fully turning in .
Suggested Spare Parts –
However , when the properly coded key can be used , or the communication is clear , the indicator light does not flash .
Exhaust smoke –
If the crankshaft big end is worn past the service limit , replace the crankshaft with a new one .
This torque value [ 31 N · m ( 3.1 kgf · m ) ] is applicable when you use a torque wrench whose length gives leverage of approximately 310 mm between the grip point to the center of the coupling square .
Slow Jet and Pilot Screw –
Rear Tire Does Not “ Hook Up ” Out of Corners ( Lack of Traction Coming Out of Turns ) –
Use an optional harder spring , or increase the spring preload .
B . User-keys ( black )
B . Pilot Screw Adjuster D ( 57001-1588 )
– 413 mL
Front Fork Oil Amount –
12 V 55 W × 2 ( High beam ) / 12 V 55 W ( Low beam )
Replace the O-ring on the base valve assembly with new ones .
Maintenance After Riding in the Rain or on a Muddy Course –
Poor braking performance –
Front Fork Oil Quantity –
With pinging or rattling , make sure that the gasoline is fresh and the octane rating sufficient .
Gear shifting faulty –
Increase the rear shock absorber spring preload or use a harder spring .
To make additional user keys , take the vehicle along with the master key and all user keys to an authorized Kawasaki dealer to have them re-registered .
Increase the rear shock absorber high speed compression damping or use a harder spring .
B . Slow Jet
Frame noise abnormal –
2 1 / 8 turns out – 1 turn out = 1 1 / 8 turns out
Use the following information to decide what changes to make .
– 419 mL
B . Trip Meter / Odometer
Front End Surges Downhill or During Acceleration Out of Corner –
Poor or no high-speed performance –
FI indicator light flashes if the improperly coded key is used , or any incorrect communication between antenna and key is occurred .
– 4 turns out
The standard setting positions of the spring preload adjuster and rebound damping force adjuster for an averagebuild rider of 68 kg with no passenger and no accessories are as follows :
Clutch operation faulty –
In addition to the above , at 1,000 km it is extremely important that the owner have the initial maintenance service performed by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Straight Section
Rear shock absorber improper adjustment symptoms –
After adjusting , make sure to tighten all four bolts securely .
Engine overheating –
In wet conditions , rely more on the throttle to control vehicle speed and less on the front and rear brakes .
Fork Bottoms Off After a High-speed Jump ( may be due to improper riding posture ) –
Rear end feels soft at small jump –
Check the condition of the spark plug , make sure the ignition timing is correct , service the air cleaner element and decarbonize the muffler .
Inspection and adjustment should be carried out by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
If you note a particular symptom of too rich or lean mixture in a specific operating range , use the chart to determine which components need adjusting .
K = 4.2
Maintenance After Riding on a Dusty Course –
A . 0.8 – 0.9 mm
Use a softer spring .
Poor handling and / or stability –
B . Mile and ° F Display
Pre-race Checks –
B . ° C / ° F Display
B . Oil Level
B . Jet Needle ( Clip Position )
The removal or rendering inoperative by any person other than for purposes of maintenance , repair or replacement , of any device or element of design incorporated into any new vehicle for the purpose of noise control prior to its sale or delivery to the ultimate purchaser or while it is in use ; and
Even if one of LED ( Light Emitting Diode ) tail / brake light is not lit , consult with an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Rear End Bottoms After 3 or 4 Successive Jumps –
– 362.5 mL
B . Bushings
Adjust the front fork oil quantity ( see Front Fork Oil Change under Front fork in the Maintenance and Adjustment chapter ) .
Front End Does Not Respond to Small Bumps in Sweeping Turns –
Front End Pushes or “ Washes Out ” in Turns ( Front Wheel Tends to Push Outward Rather than “ Bite ” in a Turn ) –
B . Top Mark
The amplifier amplifies signals from the antenna and ECU .
Front and Rear Ends Bottom Off After a High-speed Jump ( harsh bottoming occurs once or twice per lap ) –
The torque of fork cylinder unit is specified to 34 N · m ( 3.5 kgf · m ) however , when you use the top plug wrench ( special tool ) , reduce the torque to 90 % of the specified value [ 31 N · m ( 3.1 kgf · m ) ] due to the distance between the center of the square hole , where the torque wrench is fitted , and that of the octagonal hole of the wrench .
If oil leaks from the cylinder unit , replace the cylinder unit assembly .
Make sure that there is a damper when tightening the bolts .
– 130.2 mm .
Since the speed must be changed depending on the ground condition on the day of the race , be sure to run through the circuit prior to a race and tune the machine accordingly .
B . Engine Mounting Bolts
Abnormal drive train noise –
Engine noise abnormal –
If the tachometer does not operate correctly , have it checked by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
K = 4.4 ( Standard )
Use a softer spring ( Lightweight Rider Only ) .
Poor low-speed performance –
Consult your authorized Kawasaki dealer or local environmental waste agency for their proper disposal procedures .
Jet Needle –
Front End “ Knifes ” or Oversteers in Turns ( Tends to Turn Inward ) –
Consult your authorized Kawasaki dealer or local environmental waste agency for the proper disposal procedure .
Check the piston rod for smooth operation .
For the following recommendations to be applicable , you must use the standard settings as a base .
If the master key is lost , an authorized Kawasaki dealer will have to replace the ECU , order a new master key , and register the user keys .
Crankshaft Sensor
Compress the piston rod to 200 – 250 mm and hold the cylinder unit upright position for 10 minutes .
Main Jet –
Sit astride the motorcycle , take a riding posture and check that the machine is in a horizontal position .
Tighten the fork cylinder unit using the top plug wrench ( special tool ) to the specified torque .
A . Top Plug Wrench ( P . N . 57001 – 1645 )
Make sure the spark plug is tight .
B . Fork Stroke
Maintenance After the First Race –
Adjust the front fork oil amount ( see Front Fork Oil Change under Front fork in the Maintenance and Adjustment chapter ) .
Bolt
B . Fork Cylinder Unit
Before attempting any changes , however , make sure that everything else is in good shape and properly tuned .
Rear End “ Kicks ” When Braking on Bumps –
Connect the red capped wire to the ( + ) terminal , and then connect the black capped wire to the ( – ) terminal .
When the engine is already warm or on a hot days , open the throttle part way instead of using the choke knob .
Brake Pedal Bolt
2.50 -14 4PR CHENG SHIN C803
If coolant containing corrosion and rust inhibitor chemicals are not used , over a period of time , the cooling system accumulates rust and scale in the water jacket and radiator .
Check that the throttle grip has 2 - 3 mm ( 0.08 0.12 in . ) of play and turns smoothly ( refer to the Throttle
Element
If the throttle cables cannot be adjusted with the adjuster at the upper of the throttle cable , further adjustment of the throttle cables should be done by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Element
Use DOT4 rated heavy-duty brake fluid only .
B . Antenna Coil
Do not reverse polarity by connecting positive ( + ) to negative ( – ) , or a battery explosion and serious damage to the electrical system may occur .
2.3
To avoid burns , be sure the exhaust system is cold before cleaning the spark arrester .
Replace the element with a new one .
B . Air Cleaner Cover
Be sure he or she always wears a helmet , over-the-ankle footwear or sturdy boots , eye protection , gloves , long pants , and a long-sleeved shirt while riding .
Installing the ( – ) cable to the ( + ) terminal of the battery or the ( + ) cable to the ( – ) terminal of the battery can seriously damaged the electrical system .
Operation with an improperly adjusted , incorrectly routed , or damaged cable could result in an unsafe riding conditions before riding .
B . 20 - .
50 hours ( 6 months )
Lubricate the areas shown in the illustrations of this section with either motor oil or regular grease , in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart and whenever the vehicle has been operated under wet or rainy conditions , especially after using a high-pressure spray washer .
B . Spark Plug
1.3
Always use a clean cloth .
B . OFF Button
B . Engine Stop Switch
Front Brake Light Switch
4.9
Turn the fuel tap lever to the OFF position when the fuel tank is removed for maintenance and adjustments or the motorcycle is stored for a long time .
If all keys are lost , the ECU must be replaced .
In order for the engine , transmission , and clutch to function properly , maintain the engine oil at the proper level , and change the oil and replace oil filter in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
B . Throttle Grip
Before the first ride of each day of operation , check the tightness of the nuts and baits shown below .
Consult your authorized Kawasaki dealer or local environmental waste agency for their proper disposal procedures
Let the motorcycle cool completely .
– 1,150 r / min ( rpm )
B . 1 / 2 Degree Screw 42 mm ( 1.7 in . )
B . Right Side Rear Cowling
Check the throttle grip play each day before riding the motorcycle , and in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart , and adjust it if necessary .
Use an aerosol cable lubricant with a pressure lubricator on all cables :
B . Hollow
Brake Lever Mounting Bolt
Turn Signal Relay Fuse 10A
The plug may also be cleaned using a high-flash point solvent and a wire brush or other suitable tool .
Connect another jumper cable from the negative ( – ) terminal of the booster battery to your motorcycle footpeg mounting bolt or other unpained metal surface .
Replace brake linings if excess wear is found .
Be sure your child understands the importance of checking all items thoroughly before riding the motorcycle .
The spark plug should be taken out in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart for cleaning , inspection , and resetting of the plug gap .
Check for O-ring damage .
8.8
4.5
Your Kawasaki engine is designed to use only unleaded gasoline with a minimum octane rating of RON 91 .
The motorcycle is ready for regular operation after this procedure is carried out .
B . Gap
Check that the throttle grip turns smoothly and there is 2 3 mm ( 0.08 0.12 in . ) throttle grip play when lightly turning the throttle grip back and forth .
The installation and removal of the rear shock absorber should be done by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
TO PROTECT THE FUTURE OF YOUR SPORT , MAKE SURE YOU USE YOUR BIKE LEGALLY , SHOW CONCERN FOR THE ENVIRONMENT , AND RESPECT THE RIGHTS OF OTHER PEOPLE .
Install the air cleaner element in the housing , and make sure the sealing surface of the element is seated properly .
Inspection and replacement of brake components should be accomplished by an authorized Kawasaki dealer or other persons competent and experienced in brake inspection and service .
Open and close the throttle a few times to make sure that the idling speed does not change .
3.000 ( 36 / 12 )
6.5
1.350 ( 27 / 20 )
Brake Wear Inspection :
ABS indicator light goes off by this operation , but if ABS indicator light remains lit after the motorcycle runs at the speed of approx . 6 km / h or below , you should have the ABS checked by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Accelerator Cable
This exhaust device is controlled by the ECU , and adjustment or maintenance should be done by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
2.0
Check the oil level and for oil leakage ( refer to Oil Level Inspection ) .
When installing the oil filter cap , make sure the 0-ring is in place .
Check if the throttle grip moves smoothly from full open to close , and the throttle closes quickly and completely in all steering positions by the return spring .
If an improperly coded key is used or any incorrect communication between ECU and key is occurred , the engine does not start and FI indicator light flashes .
The 3 / 8 degree screw can be used for the beginning rider , 1 / 2 degree screw for the semi-skilled rider , and no throttle limiting screw for riders with more advanced skills .
0.53
Use only the Kawasaki screws supplied with the motorcycle .
if your motorcycle has leather accessories special care must be taken .
A . Chain Slipper B . Swingarm
110 mm ( 4.3 in . )
ECU Fuse 15A
B . Screws
Left Switch Housing
Pull up the front and rear ends of the passenger ' s and rider ' s seats to make sure they are securely locked .
In this case , the brake shoes must be replaced and the drum and other brake parts examined by an authorized Kawasaki Dealer .
Disconnect the wire from the battery , first from the ( – ) terminal and then the ( + ) terminal .
Replace the ECU .
B . Warning Light
If there is any damage to the front fork , or if front fork maintenance is necessary , it should be done by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Front Fork Upper Clamp Bolts
5.2
USE YOUR BIKE LEGALLY .
Oxygen Sensor Heater Fuse 10A
Be sure to follow the maintenance and adjustment requirements contained in the Periodic Maintenance Chart , Daily Pre-ride Inspection , and After-Race Check Points .
Make certain that the fuel tap lever is turned to ON ( not RES ) , after filling up the fuel tank .
Replace the damaged gasket with a new one .
0.12
1.2
If the fuel runs out with the tap in the ON position , the last 0.5 L ( 0.13 US gal ) of fuel can be used by turning the tap lever to the RES position .
The right side rear cowling uses the quick rivets .
B . Tab
Do not operate the motorcycle without inserting the throttle limiting screw or blank screw into the throttle housing .
The first one hour that the motorcycle is ridden is designed as the break-in period .
Honeycomb Type Catalyst without Oxygen Sensor
Stick Coils
Front Brake Lever Play Inspection
B . Handlebar Clamps
To put the motorcycle back into use after storage .
8.0
End of inspection ( Go to self-diagnosis . )
3.0
Right Switch Housing
Pivot Shaft Nut
For each front and rear disc brake caliper , if the thickness of either pad linning is less than 1 mm , replace both pads in the caliper as a set .
Rear Brake Pedal Play Inspection
Electronic Control Unit ( ECU )
Headlight Fuse 10A
Before starting to ride your motorcycle , please read this manual thoroughly in order to know your motorcycle ' s capabilities , its limitations , and above all , how to operate it safety .
Fit the plug cap securely onto the spark plug , and pull the cap lightly to make sure that it is properly installed
If the motorcycle is not used carefully during this period , you may very well end up with a " broken down " instead of a " broken in " motorcycle after the long use .
3.5
Be sure to install the plug to the air cleaner housing bottom after draining .
To avoid a fire or explosion , do not use gasoline or a low-flash point solvent to clean the element .
B . USABLE RANGE
Ignition Fuse 10A
80 kPa ( 0.8 kgf / cm2 , 11 psi )
Kick Pedal Bolt
Uni-trak tie rods operation - inspect
3.409 ( 75 / 22 )
See page
If “ knocking ” or “ pinging ” occurs , try a different brand of gasoline or higher octane grade .
If the spring action feels too soft or too stiff , have it adjusted by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
B . Handlebar
14 x 1.40
Repair or replace the meter or wiring
ECU Main Relay
Be sure to correct any of these conditions before idling .
OPERATION / FREQUENCY
Make sure the ignition key is turned to OFF ” .
If there is any damage to the rear shock absorber , it should be replaced by an authorized Kawasaki dealer .
Check that there is no brake drag .
Replace , add , adjust or torque if necessary .
If the motorcycle has just been used , wait several minutes for all the oil to settle .
Check that the engine stop switch is in the RUN position ( RUN switch pushed in . ) .
Air cleaner element-clean
This motorcycle is designed for off-road riding and should never be operated on public roads or paved surfaces .
Fan Fuse 15A
2.5
B . Full ( F ) Level Line
4.0
B . Oil Filter Cover
B . Tail Pipe
Check inside the intake tract for dirt .
1.938 ( 31 / 16 )
Check that the brake lever has 4 ~ 5 mm ( 0.16 ~ 0.20 in . ) of play when the brake is lightly applied .
B . 2 ~ 3mm ( 0.08 ~ 0.12 in . )
When checking the tire air pressure , remove the air valve cap , and make sure to tighten the cap securely after checking the tire pressure .
Open
When tying up light loads to the seat , use the tying hooks left and right below the passenger ' s seat .
5.5
Due to friction plate wear and clutch cable stretch over a long period of use , the clutch operation should be checked each day before riding the motorcycle , and must be adjusted in accordance with the Periodic Maintenance Chart .
B . Stem Nut Wrench ( P / N .
B . Central Pin
To avoid damaging the electrical connections inside the switch , be sure that the switch body does not turn during adjustment .
Inspect the element for damage such as tears , hardening , or shrinkage .
If you leave the P ( Park ) position on for a long time , the battery may become totally discharged .
2.2
B . Air Screw
0.5
Exceeding this limit could damage the motorcycle .
89mm ( 3.5 in . )
If the lining thickness of either pad is less than the service limit [ B ] , replace both pads in the caliper as a set .
Oil Applied Areas [ A ]
If roughness , binding or noise is found , remove the rear wheel and inspect the wheel bearing ( see Rear Wheel Removal , Hub Bearing Inspection in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) and coupling ( see Coupling Bearing Inspection in the Final Drive chapter ) .
Engine Ground Cable Terminal Bolt [ C ]
Battery ( see Charging Condition Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Turn Signal Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Upper Plastic Holder [ A ]
If the fluid level is lower than the lower level line , fill the reservoir to the upper level line [ C ] .
Neutral Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Air Switching Valve Hose [ A ] ( Disconnect )
Put [ A ] the projection [ B ] on the reserve tank into the hole [ C ] on the frame bracket , and place the reserve tank on the right side of frame .
When necessary , remove screws that have a non-permanent locking agent applied using an impact driver .
Turn [ A ] the driver to disconnect the joint lock [ B ] .
Check the lining thickness [ A ] of the pads in each caliper .
Whenever the vehicle has been operated under wet or rainy conditions , or especially after using a high-pressure water spray , perform the general lubrication .
Rear :
Check that the brake fluid level in the rear brake reservoir [ A ] is above the lower level line [ B ] .
Steering Stem Nut Wrench [ A ] :
Visually inspect the shock absorber [ A ] for oil leakage .
If roughness , binding or noise is found , remove the front wheel and inspect the wheel bearing ( see Front Wheel Removal , Hub Bearing Inspection in the Wheels / Tires chapter ) .
First , tighten the rear brake fluid reservoir cap [ B ] clockwise [ C ] by hand until slight resistance is felt indicating that the cap is seated on the reservoir body , then tighten the cap an additional 1 / 6 turn [ D ] while holding the brake fluid reservoir body [ A ] .
7.3 mm
Main Fuse 30 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Make sure the seal is aligned properly when installing .
O-rings [ B ]
Wheel alignment can be also checked using the straightedge or string method .
Remove any imbedded stones [ A ] or other foreign particles [ B ] from tread .
Remove the cotter pin [ A ] , and loosen the axle nut [ B ] .
Use proper tools and genuine Kawasaki Motorcycle parts .
Pack the upper and lower ball bearings [ A ] in the cages with grease , and apply a light coat of grease to the upper and lower outer races .
The left or right turn signal lights [ B ] ( front and rear ) according to the switch position should flash .
Drive Chain Slack Inspection
Spin [ B ] the rear wheel lightly , and check for smoothly turn , roughness , binding or noise .
City Light [ A ]
Element [ B ]
Push and pull [ A ] the fuel hose joint [ B ] back and forth more than two times and make sure it is locked and doesn ' t come off .
– 3 1 / 2 ( for reference )
Throttle Control System Inspection
Rear Shock Absorber Oil Leak Inspection
For the duration of the warranty period , we recommend that all repairs and scheduled maintenance be performed in accordance with this service manual .
Bolts [ A ]
Precision measurements can only be made if the proper instruments are used , and the use of substitute tools may adversely affect safe operation .
Turn the vertical adjuster [ A ] on the headlight with the screwdriver in or out to adjust the headlight vertically .
Pilot Screw Adjuster , E [ A ] :
Reserve Tank [ B ]
Using the thickness gauge [ A ] , measure the valve clearance between cam and valve lifter .
Check the throttle grip free play [ A ] .
Air Pressure Inspection
Engine Vacuum Synchronization Inspection
Turn the adjuster [ B ] until there is no play when the throttle grip is completely closed .
Headlight Relay in Relay Box ( see Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Letters used in the “ Remarks ” column mean :
Neutral Indicator Light ( LED ) [ A ]
Starter Relay ( see Starter Relay Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Ignition Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Open the bleed valve [ A ] .
Inspect the roughness of the front wheel bearing by pushing and pulling [ A ] the wheel .
Install new gaskets and replace used O-rings when re-assembling
Slide the dust cover [ A ] at the middle of the clutch cable out of place .
Before starting to perform an inspection service or carry out a disassembly and reassembly operation on a motorcycle , read the precautions given below .
Headlight :
If the vacuums are correct , check the output voltage of the main throttle sensor ( see Main Throttle Sensor Output Voltage Inspection in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Lights and Switches Operation Inspection
Engine Stop Switch Operation Inspection
Turn on the turn signal switch [ A ] ( left or right position ) .
If the shock absorber does not smoothly stroke or noise is found , inspect the oil leak ( see Rear Shock Absorber Oil Leak Inspection ) .
Sidestand Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Push [ C ] the joint lock [ D ] .
Place a container under the water pump drain bolt [ A ] , then remove the drain bolt .
Be sure the wires and cables are properly routed .
Use a high-flush point solvent when cleaning parts .
With the engine idling , turn the handlebar to both sides [ A ] .
Brake Fluid Leak ( Brake Hose and Pipe ) Inspection
Use a meter that has enough accuracy for an accurate measurement .
Drive Chain Wear Inspection
Stretch the chain taut by hanging a 98 N ( 10 kg ) weight [ A ] on the chain .
Fuel Hose [ B ]
Insert a new cotter pin [ A ] .
After changing the fluid , use only the same type and brand of fluid thereafter .
If the all parts are good condition , replace the ECU ( see ECU Removal / Installation in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Brake Hose Damage and Installation Condition Inspection
INSPECTION
Don ' t take shortcuts .
Check the bypass screw and its hole for carbon deposits .
Ignition Fuse 10 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Turn the adjuster [ A ] so that 5 – 6 mm [ B ] of threads are visible .
Air Cleaner Element [ C ]
Headlight Fuse 10 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Tightening Sequence
Then , use the Table of Contents on the first page of the chapter to find the Spark Plug section .
Turn Signal Relay Fuse 10 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Wheel / Tire Damage Inspection
If cable movement is not free after lubricating , if the cable is frayed [ B ] , or if the cable housing is kinked [ C ] , replace the cable .
Measure the tread depth at the center of the tread with a depth gauge [ A ] .
Meter Unit for FI Indicator Light ( LED ) ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
For safely , use only the standard chain .
Whenever special tools or equipment are specified , do not use makeshift tools or equipment .
Turn the adjusting screw [ A ] until the idle speed is correct .
Replace the hose if any fraying , cracks [ B ] or bulges [ C ] are noticed .
FI ( Fuel Injection ) KEIHIN TTK38 × 2
Check the wheel alignment ( see Wheel Alignment Inspection ) .
Remove the steering stem locknut [ B ] and claw washer [ C ] .
If the steering is too tight , loosen the stem nut [ B ] a fraction of a turn .
Open and close the throttle a few times to make sure that the idle speed is within the specified range .
Bend and twist the rubber hose while examining it .
The high pressure inside the brake line can cause fluid to leak [ A ] or the hose to burst if the line is not properly maintained .
Replace the fuel hose if any fraying , cracks [ B ] or bulges [ C ] are noticed .
How to Use This Manual
Idle Speed Inspection
However , if the motorcycle is not properly handled , the high pressure inside the fuel line can cause fuel to leak [ A ] or the hose to burst .
Relay Box ( see Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Push and pull [ A ] the hose joint [ B ] back and forth more than two times , and make sure it is locked .
Low Beam [ A ]
If the coolant level is lower than the “ L ” level line [ B ] , remove the right center fairing ( see Center Fairing Removal in the Frame chapter ) and unscrew the reserve tank cap , and add coolant to the “ F ” level line [ C ] .
Turn out the bypass screw of the higher vacuum between # 1 [ A ] and # 2 [ B ] to the lower vacuum .
Brake Operation Inspection
Clean the element [ A ] in a bath of high flash-point solvent , and then dry it with compressed air or by shaking it .
Use common sense during disassembly and assembly , excessive force can cause expensive or hard to repair damage .
Engine Stop Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
The brake light [ A ] should go on when the brake lever is applied or after the brake pedal is depressed about 10 mm .
CHANGE / REPLACE ITEM
Connect a commercially available vacuum gauge and hoses [ A ] to the fittings of the throttle body as shown .
Pump the seat down and up [ A ] 4 or 5 times , and inspect the smooth stroke .
Insert [ A ] the fuel hose joint [ B ] straight onto the delivery pipe until the hose joint clicks .
When inserting the cotter pin , if the slots in the nut do not align with the cotter pin hole in the axle , tighten the nut clockwise [ B ] up to next alignment .
FI Indicator Light ( LED ) [ B ]
Turn the engine stop switch to run position [ A ] .
Spin [ B ] the front wheel lightly , and check for smoothly turn , roughness , binding or noise .
Install the claw washer [ A ] so that its bent side [ B ] faces upward , and engage the bent claws with the grooves of stem locknut [ C ] .
Check that the throttle grip moves smoothly from full open to close [ A ] , and the throttle closes quickly and completely by the return spring in all steering positions .
Lift large or heavy parts wearing gloves to prevent injury from possible sharp edges on the parts .
Pull the clutch lever just enough to take up the free play [ A ] .
Brake Fluid Level Inspection
Check the tapered portion [ E ] of the bypass screw for wear or damage .
Be sure to correct any of these conditions before riding ( see Throttle Control System Inspection or Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter ) .
Brake Light Switch Operation Inspection
The low beam [ A ] and high beam [ B ] headlights should go on .
Check that the brake fluid level in the front brake reservoir [ A ] is above the lower level line [ B ] .
Taillight [ B ]
Air Suction System Damage Inspection
License Plate Light [ C ]
If a special lubricant is not available , a heavy oil such as SAE 90 is preferred to a lighter oil because it will stay on the chain longer and provide better lubrication .
Turn the horizontal adjuster [ A ] on the headlight with the screwdriver in or out until the beam points straight ahead .
Wheel Bearing Damage Inspection
Main Fuse 30 A and Taillight Fuse 10 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Loosen the locknut [ B ] at the middle of clutch cable .
Clean the element in a well-ventilated area , and make sure that there are no sparks or flame anywhere near the working area .
The wire screen [ A ] is fastened with an adhesive for the shaded portion [ B ] .
Set the dimmer switch [ A ] to low beam position .
Meter Unit for Neutral Indicator Light ( LED ) ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
When completed with the service , first connect the positive ( + ) wire to the positive ( + ) terminal of the battery then the negative ( – ) wire to the negative terminal .
With the cable disconnected at both ends , the inner cable should move freely [ A ] within the cable housing .
Headlight Aiming Inspection
( mixture of the engine oil and molybdenum disulfide grease in a weight ratio 10 :
Plug [ A ] the air switching valve hose end with your finger and feel vacuum pulsing in the hose .
7.05 – 7.20 mm
Tighten fasteners to the specified torque using a good quality torque wrench .
Measure the length of 20 links [ B ] on the straight part [ C ] of the chain from the pin center of the 1st pin to the pin center of the 21st pin .
Starter Button ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Check that the hoses are routed according to Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing section in the Appendix chapter .
Because of the danger of highly flammable liquids , do not use gasoline or a low flash-point solvent to clean the element .
Apply the brake lever or pedal and inspect the brake fluid leak from the brake hoses [ A ] and fittings [ B ] .
The high pressure inside the radiator hose and pipe can cause coolant to leak [ A ] or the hose to burst if the line is not properly maintained .
Rear Brake Light Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Inspect the roughness of the rear wheel bearing by pushing and pulling [ A ] the wheel .
Check that the hoses are securely connected and clamps are tightened correctly .
If any carbon accumulates , wipe the carbon off the bypass screw and the hole , using a cotton pad penetrated with a high-flash point solvent .
Be sure that the outer cable end at the clutch lever is fully seated in the adjuster at the clutch lever , or it could slip into place later , creating enough cable play to prevent clutch disengagement .
Front Brake Light Switch [ A ] ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Complete cleaning and drying the chain within 10 minutes .
Make sure the hose joint is installed correctly on the delivery pipe by sliding the joint , or the fuel could leak .
Loosen the both chain adjuster locknuts [ C ] .
Steering Play Inspection
Drive Chain Lubrication Condition Inspection
High-flush point solvent should be used according to directions of the solvent manufacturer .
Reserve Tank Bolts [ A ]
Be sure to place a piece of cloth [ A ] around the fuel hose joint .
Meter Unit for Meter Panel LCD ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Measure the vertical movement ( chain slack ) [ A ] midway between the sprockets .
A
Raise the rear wheel off the ground with stand .
Sidestand Switch Operation Inspection
Pull the air switching valve hose [ C ] out of the air cleaner housing .
Meter ( – ) → W ( sensor BR / BK ) lead
Use only kerosene or diesel oil for cleaning an O-ring drive chain .
Illustrations and photographs in this publication are intended for reference use only and may not depict actual model component parts .
Front Fork Oil Leak Inspection
Clutch Inner Cable Upper and Lower Ends [ A ]
Make sure the fuel hose joint is installed correctly on the delivery pipe or the fuel could leak .
Hose Joints [ A ]
Meter Unit for Turn Signal Light Indicator Light ( LED ) ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
The turn signal indicator light ( LED ) [ C ] in the meter unit should flash .
Chain Guide Inspection
Read the manufacture ' s instructions thoroughly before using the meter .
High Beam [ C ]
Starter Circuit Relay ( see Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Do not remove the inlet air pressure sensor hose [ B ] on the left fitting of the throttle body .
ECU ( see ECU Power Supply Inspection in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter )
Bolts , Nuts and Fasteners Tightness Inspection
Extension Tube [ B ]
Remove the bypass screw [ A ] , spring [ B ] , washer [ C ] and O-ring [ D ] .
Bend the cotter pin [ A ] over the nut [ B ] .
Use this table for only the bolts and nuts which do not require a specific torque value .
When inspecting by running the vehicle , note a surrounding traffic situation enough in the place of safety .
Clutch Operation Inspection
Pump the forks down and up [ A ] 4 or 5 times , and inspect the smooth stroke .
Turn Signal Relay ( see Turn Signal Relay Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Tire Tread Wear , Abnormal Wear Inspection
If there is no leak , check the air switching valve ( see Air Switching Valve Unit Test in the Electrical System chapter ) or air suction valve ( see Air Suction Valve Inspection in the Engine Top End chapter ) .
Start the engine and check the fuel hose for leaks .
– 0.32 mm
Be sure to maintain proper alignment and use smooth movements when installing .
If the engine stop switch is good condition , replace the ECU ( see ECU Removal / Installation in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Turn the adjuster [ B ] in completely so as to give the throttle grip plenty of play .
The high beam indicator light ( LED ) [ C ] should go on .
Visually inspect the front forks [ A ] for oil leakage .
Periodic Inspection
Disconnect the ground wire ( – ) first and then the positive ( + ) .
Loosen the locknut [ A ] at the middle of the decelerator cable .
Meter ( + ) → R ( sensor Y / W ) lead
Install the element unit [ A ] with the foam element side ( gray ) [ B ] facing down .
Replace the hose if any crack [ B ] , bulge [ C ] or leakage is noticed .
Height of Headlight Center [ B ]
Dimmer Switch ( see Switch Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Fuel Pump Lead Connector [ A ]
Meter Unit for Oil Pressure / Water Temperature Warning Indicator Light ( LED ) ( see Electronic Combination Meter Unit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Wheel Alignment Inspection
Visually inspect the chain guide [ A ] .
Fuel System ( DFI )
Loosen the locknut [ A ] at the upper end of the accelerator cable .
Harness ( see Wiring Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Be sure to time the camshafts properly ( see Camshaft Installation in the Engine Top End chapter ) .
Turn the engine stop switch to stop position [ A ] .
Turn the adjusting nut [ C ] until the free play is correct .
Indicates a conditional step or what action to take based on the results of the test or inspection in the procedural step or sub-step it follows .
The scheduled maintenance must be done in accordance with this chart to keep the motorcycle in good running condition . The initial maintenance is vitally important and must not be neglected .
Front Forks / Rear Shock Absorber Operation Inspection
Insert a minus screw driver [ B ] into the slit [ C ] on the joint lock .
If the output voltage is out of the range , check the throttle input voltage ( see Main Throttle Sensor Input Voltage Inspection in the Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter ) .
Fuel Hose Inspection ( fuel leak , damage , installation condition )
Disconnect the connector [ A ] .
1.055 – 1.095 V DC ( at idle throttle opening )
Measure the tire air pressure with an air pressure gauge [ A ] when the tires are cold ( that is , when the motorcycle has not been ridden more than a mile during the past 3 hours ) .
Pull [ C ] the fuel hose joint [ D ] out of the delivery pipe .
Straighten the claws [ A ] of the claw washer .
Stator Coil Bolts
If the fluid level is lower than the lower level line , fill the reservoir to the upper level line [ C ] in the reservoir .
Check the coolant level in the reserve tank [ A ] with the motorcycle held perpendicular ( Do not use the sidestand ) .
Follow the specified tightening sequence .
Check that the hose joints are securely connected .
Air Cleaner Element Screw [ B ]
Inspect the sidestand switch [ A ] operation accordance to below table .
After the adjustment , tighten the locknut and start the engine and check that the clutch does not slip and that it releases properly .
Front :
Oxygen Sensor Lead Connector [ B ]
Attach a clear plastic hose [ B ] to the bleed valve , and run the other end of the hose into a container .
If the wiring is good , check the ECU for its ground and power supply ( see ECU Power Supply Inspection ) .
If the inlet air pressure sensor system fails ( the signal Pv is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the ECU sets the DFI in the α - N method .
Replace the filter with a new one .
If the reading is within the range , but the problem still exists , replace the ECU ( see ECU Removal ) .
Take off the piston [ A ] , secondary cup [ B ] , primary cup [ C ] and return spring [ D ] .
Meter ( + ) → BL lead ( terminal 10 )
Power Supply to ECU ( from ECU Main Relay )
If the ignition primary winding # 1 has failures ( no signal , wiring short or open ) , the ECU shuts off the injector # 1 to stop fuel to the cylinder # 1 , though the engine keeps running .
Sometimes this method can detect a fault of the ECU .
If the output voltage is within the standard , check the ECU for its ground , and power supply ( see ECU Power Supply Inspection ) .
Meter ( + ) → Y / W ( sensor LG / R ) lead [ C ]
Install the anti-rattle spring [ A ] .
If the oxygen sensor heater fails ( wiring short or open ) , the ECU stops the current to the heater .
The ECU takes the following measures to prevent engine damage when the DFI or the ignition system parts have troubles .
with the sensor tilted 60 – 70 ° or more :
Hoses [ C ]
Meter ( + ) → BK lead ( terminal 43 )
– 6.6 k at 0 ° C
Do not remove or adjust the main throttle sensor [ A ] since it has been adjusted and set with precision at the factory .
Disconnect the main throttle sensor connector and connect the harness adapter [ A ] between these connectors .
– 8 = 62 cmHg ( Abs )
Narrow down suspicious locations by repeating the continuity tests from the ECU connectors .
About 9 – 11 V DC at Ignition Switch ON
In this case , turn off the ignition switch and turn it on again to enter the Dealer 2 mode .
Don ' t rely solely on the DFI self-diagnosis function , use common sense .
Disconnect the inlet air pressure sensor connector [ A ] and the vacuum hose [ B ] .
Pull out the piston [ C ] , secondary cup [ D ] , primary cup [ E ] , and return spring [ F ] .
Be sure the battery is fully charged .
No .
Usable range = 3.04 – 3.49 V
Connect a digital voltmeter [ A ] as shown , with the needle adapter set [ B ] .
Use the wiring diagram to find the ends of the lead which is suspected of being a problem .
Backups by ECU
Connect a digital voltmeter [ A ] to the connector [ B ] with the needle adapter set .
Make sure all connectors in the circuit are clean and tight , and examine wires for signs of burning , fraying , short , etc . Deteriorated wires and bad connections can cause reappearance of problems and unstable operation of the DFI system .
If the ground and power supply are good , replace the ECU .
about 2.25 – 2.50 V at inlet air temperature 20 ° C
Disconnect the sensor connector [ A ] , and unscrew the water temperature sensor [ B ] .
Cover the piston area with a clean , thick cloth [ B ] .
If the oxygen sensor output voltage is incorrect , the ECU stops oxygen sensor feed back mode .
– 0.6 V DC between BL / W and BR / BK leads
When checking a harness [ A ] for short circuit , open one end [ B ] and check the continuity between the other end [ C ] and ground [ D ] .
Replace the dust seals [ B ] with new ones if they are damaged .
This will damage the ECU .
Do not disconnect the ECU connectors .
ECU Connector [ A ] ← →
This DFI system is designed to be used with a 12 V sealed battery as its power source .
Suspend a thermometer [ B ] with the heat-sensitive portion [ C ] located in almost the same depth with the sensor .
Fuel poor quality or incorrect ( Use the gasoline recommended in the Owner ' s Manual )
If the ground and power supply are checked good , replace the ECU .
Ta = – 30 ° C – + 120 ° C
Remove the inlet air pressure sensor [ A ] and disconnect the vacuum hose from the sensor .
Just do the following especially when a sensor [ A ] is suspect .
3.74 – 4.26 V DC at the standard atmospheric pressure ( 101.32 kPa , 76 cmHg abs . )
Crankshaft sensor must send 22 signals ( output signal ) to the ECU at the one cranking .
Next , remove the plugs from the fitting [ A ] with idling .
Inspect the sensor resistance , using a digital meter ( see each sensor inspection in this chapter ) .
The actuator operates open and close of the subthrottle valve by the pulse signal from the ECU .
Meter ( – ) → BK ( sensor BR / BK ) lead
If the main throttle sensor system fails ( the signal is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the ECU locks ignition timing into the ignition timing at closed throttle position and sets the DFI in the D-J method .
BL lead [ C ] ← → BK lead [ D ]
Parts
Meter ( + ) → Y ( sensor BL / W ) lead
Cover the piston area with a clean , thick cloth [ A ] .
This is to prevent ECU damage by excessive voltage .
Meter ( + ) → Y / G lead [ E ]
Measure the output voltage at the ECU in the same way as input voltage inspection .
Meter ( + ) → BL ( sensor BL ) lead
Meter ( + ) → Y / BL lead ( terminal 17 )
0.2 V or less
about 9 – 11 V DC at Ignition Switch ON
– 22 Ω at 20 ° C
Make sure that measuring points are correct in the connector , noting the position of the lock [ D ] and the lead color before measurement .
If all the parts and circuits checked out good , be sure to check the ECU for ground and power supply .
Meter ( + ) → O lead ( terminal 20 )
If a transceiver is installed on the motorcycle , make sure that the operation of the DFI system is not influenced by electric wave radiated from the antenna .
Tilt the sensor 60 – 70 ° or more [ C ] right or left , then hold the sensor almost vertical with the arrow mark pointed up [ D ] , and measure the output voltage .
Remove the rubber cap from the bleed valve [ A ] on the caliper .
Except for the disc pads and disc , use only disc brake fluid , isopropyl alcohol , or ethyl alcohol for cleaning brake parts .
5.4 – 6.6 k at 0 ° C
Disconnect the subthrottle sensor connector and connect the harness adapter [ A ] between these connectors .
Ensure that the down sensor is held in place by the sensor brackets .
Suspend the sensor [ A ] in a container of machine oil so that the heat-sensitive portion is submerged .
Use a fully charged battery and a digital meter [ D ] which can be read two decimal places voltage or resistance .
Meter ( + ) → Y lead ( terminal 26 )
– 15.2 V
Even when the DFI system is operating normally , the FI indicator LED light [ A ] may light up under strong electrical interference .
10.8 – 16.2 k Ω
If the problem is with the following parts , the ECU cannot memorize these problems , the FI indicator light ( LED ) doesn ' t go on , and no service codes can be displayed .
Remove the dust seals [ A ] and fluid seals [ B ] .
Relay Box ( ECU Main Relay , Fuel Pump Relay , Radiator Fan Relay )
4.29 – 4.49 V DC ( at full throttle opening )
Set the tester to the × 1 Ω range , and read the tester .
Remove the screw [ B ] .
Refer to each sensor inspection section for detail in this chapter .
The ECU notifies the rider of troubles in DFI system and ignition system by lighting the FI indicator when DFI system and ignition system parts are faulty , and initiates fail-safe function .
Disconnect the speed sensor connector and connect the harness adapter [ A ] between the harness connector and speed sensor connector .
more than 60 – 70 ° for each bank
Replace the drain bolt gasket with a new one .
When removing the brake hoses [ B ] , temporarily secure the end of the brake hose to some high place to keep fluid loss to a minimum .
Check the shaft rubber friction boot [ A ] and the dust cover [ B ] replace them with new ones if they are damaged .
light up immediately after ignition switch ON , and goes off after 1 – 2 seconds ( normal )
Insert the spark plug vertically into the plug hole with the spark plug installed in the plug wrench [ A ] .
IC igniter in ECU trouble
Check that DFI connectors are clean and tight , and examine wires for signs of burning or fraying ( see chapter 3 ) .
Input Voltage at ECU
If the vehicle-down sensor system has failures ( the output voltage Vd is more than usable range , wiring open ) , the ECU shuts off the fuel pump , the fuel injectors and the ignition system .
Replace the fluid seal [ A ] with a new one .
Pull each connector [ A ] apart and inspect it for corrosion , dirt , and damage .
Install the suitable plugs [ A ] on the fitting [ B ] and shut off the secondary air .
Fuse Box ( ECU Fuse 15 A , Oxygen Sensor Heater Fuse 10 A )
The UP mark [ A ] of the sensor should face upward .
Fill the reserve tank up to the “ F ” ( full ) level line [ A ] with coolant and install the cap [ B ] .
When due to a malfunction , the FI indicator LED light remains lit , ask the rider about the conditions [ B ] under which the problem occurred and try to determine the cause [ C ] .
In addition , the condition of the problem is stored in the memory of the ECU ( electronic control unit ) .
As the engine speed increases , and the engine load turns middle to heavy , the ECU determines the injection quantity by calculating from the throttle opening ( throttle sensor output voltage ) and the engine speed .
If the sensor , the wiring and connections are good , inspect the ECU for its ground and power supply ( see this chapter ) .
Even if the ignition switch is turned OFF , the battery or the ECU are disconnected or the problem is solved , all service codes remain in the ECU .
Connect a commercially available digital meter [ C ] , vacuum gauge [ D ] , the fork oil level gauge [ E ] and the harness adapter to the inlet air pressure sensor .
Water Pump Cover [ B ] ( see Water Pump Removal in the Cooling System chapter )
If the oxygen sensor is not activated , the ECU stops oxygen sensor feedback mode .
Stick Coil Input Voltage at ECU
unlights ( light ( LED ) , ECU or its wiring fault )
Connections to ECU Connector
Repeat opening [ B ] and grounding [ A ] the lead ( self-diagnosis terminal ) more than five times [ F ] within 2 seconds [ C ] after the lead is grounded , and then keep it grounded continuously [ D ] for more than 2 seconds .
Ground [ A ] the self-diagnosis terminal [ B ] ( Orange / Black lead ) to the battery ( – ) terminal [ C ] or battery ( – ) lead connector , using a wire .
Subthrottle Sensor Connector [ B ]
Replace the dust seal [ B ] with a new one if it is damaged .
If the water temperature sensor system fails ( the signal is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the ECU sets Tw at 80 ° C .
Connector [ A ]
Connect a digital volt meter [ C ] to the connector [ B ] of the vehicle-down sensor [ A ] with the needle adapter set [ D ] .
Measure the output voltage at the main throttle sensor in the same way as input voltage inspection , Note the following .
To enter the self-diagnosis dealer mode 2 , open [ B ] and ground [ A ] the lead more than five times [ F ] within 2 seconds [ C ] after the lead is first grounded , and then keep it grounded continuously [ D ] for more than 2 seconds .
Y / W lead ( ECU terminal 7 )
→ 21 ) → ( 12 → 21 ) → · · · ( repeated )
If the output voltage for various vacuum is normal , check the ECU for its ground , and power supply ( see ECU Power Supply Inspection ) .
If hard water is used in the system , it causes scales accumulation in the water passages , and considerably reduces the efficiency of the cooling system .
Clutch Cover [ B ]
When the motorcycle is down , the vehicle-down sensor is turned OFF and the ECU shuts off the fuel injectors and ignition system .
BL lead [ C ] ← → BR / BK lead [ D ]
about 11.7 – 12.3 at 20 ° C
For cleaning of the parts , use only disc brake fluid , isopropyl alcohol , or ethyl alcohol .
Conversely , make sure that all the DFI electrical connections are firmly reconnected before starting the engine .
ECU ( Electronic Control Unit )
The ECU may be involved in these problems .
This method is conducted by measuring the input voltage [ B ] to a sensor [ A ] first , and then the output voltage [ C ] from the sensor .
Speed sensor must send 4 signals ( output signal ) to the ECU at the one rotation of the engine sprocket .
For cleaning the parts , use only disc brake fluid , isopropyl alcohol , or ethyl alcohol .
Meter ( − ) → BK ( sensor BK / Y ) lead [ D ]
Crankshaft Sensor ( – ) Signal
ECU ground or power supply trouble
Replace the fluid seals [ A ] with new ones .
Fill the radiator up to the filler neck [ A ] with coolant .
If the output voltage is within the usable range , check the ECU for its ground , and power supply ( see ECU Power Supply Inspection ) .
ECU ( Electronic Control Unit ) :
The DFI part connectors [ A ] have seals [ B ] , including the ECU .
Meter ( + ) → G ( sensor Y / BL ) lead
Connect a digital voltmeter [ A ] to the ECU connector [ B ] with the needle adapter set .
Connect a digital meter [ A ] to the subthrottle sensor connector [ B ] .
– 5.25 V DC between BL and BR / BK leads
Meter ( + ) → BK / G lead ( terminal 52 )
BR / BK lead ( ECU terminal 28 )
If these parts and circuits are checked out good , be sure to check the ECU for ground and power supply .
After measurement , remove the needle adapters and apply silicone sealant to the seals [ A ] of the connector [ B ] for waterproofing .
The ECU memorizes service codes .
Apply a thin coat of PBC ( Poly Butyl Cuprysil ) grease to the caliper holder shafts [ C ] and holder holes [ D ] ( PBC is a special high-temperature , water-resistance grease ) .
about 2.80 – 2.97 V at 20 ° C
Vd = 0.65 V – 4.45 V
Never replace a defective part without determining what CAUSED the problem .
Use a fully charged battery when conducting self-diagnosis .
Do not remove or adjust the subthrottle sensor [ A ] since it has been adjusted and set with precision at the factory .
– 1.077 V DC between Y / W and BR / BK leads
Pull out the inlet air temperature sensor [ C ] .
Close the bleed valve [ C ] .
Remove the oil filter [ A ] with the oil filter wrench [ B ] .
If the reading is out of the range , check the speed sensor operation ( see Speed Sensor Inspection in the Electrical System chapter ) and the wiring to ECU ( see wiring diagram in this section ) .
Inspect the wiring and connectors [ B ] for continuity , using the hand tester [ C ] ( analog tester ) rather than a digital meter .
about 2.25 – 2.50 V @ 20 ° C
Dealer Mode 1
about 5.5 – 7.5
If the subthrottle valve actuator fails ( the signal is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the ECU stops the current to the actuator .
Connect a digital meter [ A ] to the main throttle sensor connector [ B ] .
Remove the ECU ( see ECU Removal ) .
Meter ( – ) → BK / Y lead ( terminal 51 )
The stick coil primary winding must send signals ( output voltage ) continuously to the ECU .
If the reading is less than the standard range , remove the ECU and check the wiring between these connectors .
ECU Fuse 15 A
If the reading , speed sensor operation and wiring are good , check the ECU for its ground , and power supply ( see ECU Power Supply Inspection ) .
Blow compressed air [ B ] into the hole for the banjo bolt to remove the piston .
If no abnormality is found in the wiring , connectors , and DFI parts , replace the ECU .
If both ends of a harness [ A ] are far apart , ground [ B ] the one end [ C ] , using a jumper lead [ D ] and check the continuity between the end [ E ] and the ground [ F ] .
Do not disconnect the ECU connector .
Make sure to keep the grounding until the following opening and grounding starts .
Be sure to install the oil filler plug [ A ] after filling the engine oil .
If the reading of input voltage is less than the standard , check the ECU for its ground , power supply and wiring shorted .
With the engine stopped and turned in the self-diagnosis mode , the service code [ A ] is indicated by the number of times the FI indicator LED light blinks .
Install the anti-rattle spring [ A ] in the caliper as shown .
about 8.5 – 10.5 V DC
Main Throttle Sensor Connector [ A ]
However , there is no way to check the ECU itself .
Connect a digital volt meter [ A ] to the connector with needle adapter set [ B ] .
Connect a digital voltmeter to the ECU connector , using needle adapter set .
Blow compressed air [ A ] into the hole for the banjo bolt to remove the piston .
with sensor tilted 60 – 70 ° or more right or left :
The oxygen sensor must send signals ( output voltage ) continuously to the EUC
If the ground and power supply are good , the ECU is suspect .
Output Voltage at ECU
– 4.20 V DC at standard atmospheric pressure ( see this text for details )
Remove the banjo bolts [ A ] .
Apply engine oil to the gasket [ A ] before installation .
First , conduct a self-diagnosis inspection and then a non-self-diagnosis inspection .
Remove the engine oil drain bolt [ A ] to drain the oil .
BL lead ( ECU terminal 10 )
If the measurement is within the specified , replace the ECU .
If the input voltage is less than the standard , remove the ECU and check the wiring between these connectors .
If the speed sensor system fails ( no signal , wiring short or open ) , the speedometer shows 0 , and the ECU sets the top ( 6 ) gear position .
Meter ( – ) → BR / BK lead [ F ]
Disconnect the ECU and sensor connectors .
Loose terminal of battery ( – ) cable or ECU ground lead
Whenever the DFI electrical connections are to be disconnected , first turn off the ignition switch , and disconnect the battery ( – ) terminal .
Pull the dust cover [ A ] out of place , and remove the circlip [ B ] .
Remove the radiator cap [ A ] in two steps .
Replace the shaft rubber friction boot [ A ] and dust cover [ B ] if they are damaged .
The oxygen sensor is active and sensor must send signals ( output voltage ) continuously to the ECU .
If the inlet air temperature sensor fails ( the signal is out of the usable range , wiring short or open ) , the ECU sets Ta at 40 ° C .
Connect an auxiliary hose [ B ] to the inlet air pressure sensor .
To enter the self-diagnosis dealer mode 1 , ground [ A ] the self-diagnosis indicator terminal to the battery ( – ) terminal for more than 2 seconds [ C ] , and then keep it grounded continuously [ D ] .
Start the engine and switch the diagnosis mode to Dealer 1 mode to know all the problem that the DFI system has at the time of self-diagnosis .
Too low fuel pressure
Meter ( + ) → BL lead [ D ]
Unscrew the oil filler plug [ A ] .
Remove the spark plugs using the 16 mm plug wrench [ A ] .
When a problem occurs with the DFI system and ignition system , the DFI indicator light ( LED ) [ A ] goes on .
Remove the bleed valve [ C ] and rubber cap [ D ] .
When the engine load is light like at idling or low speed , the ECU determines the injection quantity by calculating from the throttle vacuum ( inlet air pressure sensor output voltage ) and engine speed ( crankshaft sensor output voltage ) .
Power Supply to ECU ( from Battery )
In case of serious troubles , the ECU stops the injection / ignition / starter motor operation .
Then push and turn it further in the same direction and remove the cap .
ECU Power Source Wiring and Ground Wiring ( see ECU Inspection )
Apply the brake and hold it [ B ] .
Also , the main throttle sensor system and inlet air pressure fails , the ECU locks ignition timing into the ignition timing at closed throttle position and sets the DFI in the α -N method .
The ECU may be involved in the DFI electrical and ignition system troubles .
Do not use any other fluid for cleaning these parts .
Replace the drain bolt gasket [ B ] with a new one .
Oil spilled on any part will be difficult to wash off completely , and will eventually deteriorate the rubber used in the disc brake .
Meter ( – ) → BR / BK lead ( terminal 28 )
knocking ( fuel poor quality or incorrect , → use high-octane gasoline )
Connect these connectors until they click [ A ]
Ground to ECU
Main Fuse 30 A
Check the oil level ( see Oil Level Inspection in the Engine Lubrication System chapter ) .
4.75 – 5.25 V DC
Tw = – 30C ° – + 120 ° C
Join the connector and insert the needle adapters [ C ] inside the seals [ B ] from behind the connector until the adapter reaches the terminal .
Meter ( + ) → BL ( sensor P ) lead [ C ]
Do not use any other battery except for a 12 V sealed battery as a power source .
Thermostat Housing [ A ] ( see Water Pump Removal in the Cooling System chapter )
Check idle speed to ensure the throttle opening is correct .
Inspect crankshaft sensor and IC igniter in ECU ( see chapter 16 ) .
Locate the antenna as far as possible away from the ECU .
Run the other side of the plastic hose into the measuring cylinder [ C ] .
With the piston rings in their grooves , make several measurements with a thickness gauge [ A ] to determine piston ring / groove clearance .
Center Bolt [ B ]
To check valve opening temperature , suspend the thermostat [ A ] in a container of water and raise the temperature of the water .
Replace the gasket with a standard part .
If the runout exceeds the service limit , replace the shaft .
Connect a digital meter to the subthrottle valve actuator connector [ A ] .
Water Temperature Sensor [ A ]
Sidestand Bolt [ C ]
Reverse Side of Fuel Tank [ B ]
about 11.7 – 12.3 @ 20 ° C
If the clearance still remains out of the limit , replace the cylinder head unit .
Do not apply compressed air to the air vent holes [ C ] in the tank cap .
Disconnect the battery ( – ) terminal .
Meter ( + ) → BK / BL lead [ 1 ]
ECU Main Fuse 15 A
Install the washers with metal side [ C ] faces upward .
Insert the end [ B ] of front camshaft chain guide into the hollow on the lower crankcase half .
Place a clean cloth under the pistons and remove the piston pin snap ring [ A ] from the outside of each piston .
Secondly , remove the M8 bolts [ B ] .
Tighten the tensioner mounting bolts [ A ] .
Suspend an accurate thermometer [ B ] in the water so that the heat sensitive portions [ C ] are located in almost the same depth .
Remove the camshaft chain [ A ] from the crankshaft sprocket .
Be sure to place a piece of cloth around the fuel hose joint and the delivery pipe .
Use a vernier caliper at several points around the piston .
Original Seating Surface [ B ]
Do not use larger terminals than specified above .
Connect each test light set [ B ] to the injector sub harness connector [ C ] .
If the cap can not hold the specified pressure or if it holds too much pressure , replace it with a new one .
Check the condition of the top and bottom sealing seats [ A ] in the filler neck .
Push and pull [ A ] the hose joint [ B ] back and forth more than two times and make sure it is locked and doesn ' t come off .
Disconnect the alternator lead connector [ A ] .
Screws [ A ]
When coolant temperature is more than 80.5 – 83.5 ° C , the thermostat opens and the coolant flows .
The fuel filter [ A ] is built into the pump and cannot be cleaned or checked .
Remove the radiator cap , and install a cooling system pressure tester [ A ] on the filler neck [ B ] .
Piston Ring Thickness :
Do not remove , disassemble or adjust the main throttle sensor [ A ] , subthrottle sensor [ B ] , subthrottle valve actuator [ C ] , throttle link mechanism [ D ] and throttle body assy [ E ] , because they are adjusted or set at the manufacturer .
If a new camshaft is to be used , apply a thin coat of molybdenum disulfide grease to the cam surfaces .
Firstly remove the M6 cylinder head bolts and M6 cylinder bolts [ A ] .
Camshafts [ C ]
ECU Main Relay ( see Relay Circuit Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
Disconnect the connector from the injector [ A ] .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution [ A ] to both sides of washers and the threads of bolts and nut .
Open the fuel tank cap [ A ] to lower the pressure in the tank .
Vacuum Hose [ C ]
Measure the height [ A ] of each cam with a micrometer .
The timing marks must be aligned with the cylinder head upper surface [ C ] .
Install the air suction valve [ A ] so that its side where stopper is fixed with the screws [ B ] faces the front [ C ] .
Install the fuel pressure gauge adapter [ A ] and fuel hoses between the fuel pump outlet pipe [ B ] and the delivery pipe [ C ] .
Side Cover [ C ]
Replace damaged gasket and check cylinder head warp .
18 – 22 Ω at 20 ° C
Remove the relay box and ECU ( see ECU Removal ) .
When the coolant temperature goes up beyond 93 – 103 ° C , the radiator fan relay conducts to operate the radiator fan .
Use a soft plastic hose [ B ] as a pump inlet hose in order to insert the hose smoothly .
Dowel Pins [ B ]
Replace the oil seal with a new one .
If any of the cylinder inside diameter measurements exceeds the service limit , replace the cylinder .
When coolant temperature is below 80.5 – 83.5 ° C , the thermostat closes so that the coolant flow is restricted through the air bleeder hole , causing the engine to warm up more quickly .
Check to see if the water drain pipe [ B ] in the tank is not clogged . check the tank cap breather also .
Use two leads [ A ] and the same test light set [ B ] as in Injector Signal Test ” .
If the width of any of the two grooves is wider than the service limit at any point , replace the piston .
Pull [ A ] the radiator [ B ] toward the left , noting the baffle plate [ C ] on the cylinder head cover .
Front Engine Mounting Bolts ( Both Side ) [ A ] ( see Engine Removal in the Engine Removal / Installation chapter )
Replace the O-ring [ A ] on the water pump cover with a new one and grease it .
Between Terminal 17 ( W / BK ) and Battery ( – ) Terminal
The pressure regulator [ A ] is built into the fuel pump [ B ] and cannot be removed .
Visually inspect the coolant [ A ] in the reserve tank .
If the reading is out of the range , check the wiring to ECU ( see wiring diagram in this section ) .
Oil Seal [ B ]
Ground Volume [ B ] by 32 ° cutter
Apply high temperature grease to the lips of the water pump housing oil seal [ B ] .
The camshaft cap is machined with the cylinder head , so if a new cylinder head is installed , use the cap that is supplied with the new head .
If the valve is open , replace the thermostat with a new one .
Using two auxiliary leads , supply battery power to the FI indicator light ( LED ) [ A ] .
Bolts [ B ]
If the measurement is out of the specified range , replace the thermostat with a new one .
Check to see that all the subthrottle valves [ A ] open and close smoothly .
Position the terminal in accordance with terminal numbers of ECU connectors [ B ] in this chapter figure .
If any water or oil accumulates in the hose , remove the plug [ B ] from the drain hose and drain it .
Water Pump Housing [ C ]
ECU Installation
Be sure to install the following parts .
Be sure that the trim seal [ A ] is on the fuel tank .
If the outside diameter of the seating surface is too small , repeat the 45 ° grind until the diameter is within the specified range .
Spring [ A ]
12 V Battery [ B ]
Check that the rubber dampers [ A ] are on the frame and the fuel tank .
Meter ( + ) → BL / Y lead
Top [ A ]
Install the dowel pins [ A ] and new cylinder gasket [ B ] .
Connect the plastic hose [ A ] to the fuel pump outlet pipe .
Connect the fuel pump and the fuel level sensor connectors and the battery ( – ) cable terminal .
Widened Width [ A ] of engagement by machining with 45 ° cutter
Apply the tip of a screwdriver [ A ] to the injector [ C ] .
If the test lights flicker at regular intervals , the injector circuit in the ECU , and the wiring are good .
Insert a minus screw driver [ A ] into the slit on the joint lock [ B ] .
This avoids kinking the chain on the lower ( crankshaft ) sprocket .
Measure each clearance between the camshaft journal and the camshaft cap using plastigage ( press gauge ) [ A ] .
M10 Cylinder Head Bolts [ B ]
Terminal Width [ B ] :
Carefully spread the ring opening with your thumbs and then push up on the opposite side of the ring [ A ] to remove it .
Inspect the cylinder and replace / repair the cylinder and / or piston as necessary .
If there is any doubt as to the condition of the reeds [ A ] , replace the air suction valve as an assembly .
Install the top ring [ A ] so that the " R " mark [ B ] faces up .
Clamp [ B ]
Terminal Thickness [ C ] :
Do not apply the load to the fuel pump outlet portion [ A ] especially the outlet pipe made from resin .
Attach the compression gauge [ A ] and adapter [ B ] firmly into the spark plug hole .
Install the clamp on the hose [ A ] so that its pinch heads [ B ] face the right .
If a new cylinder is used , use new piston ring .
Repeat the leak test , and check the fuel line for no leakage .
Valve Seat [ B ]
Fit the projection [ A ] of the right switch housing into the hole [ B ] of the handlebar .
Visually check the element [ A ] for tears or breaks .
If the reading is good , the power source voltage is normal , Inspect the Red / Black lead between the oxygen sensor connector and the ECU for continuity , using the following diagram .
Secure the plastic hose with a clamp [ B ] .
Tighten the cap bolt [ B ] .
Install the second ring [ C ] so that the " RN " mark [ D ] faces up .
A sound scope [ B ] can also be used .
Replace the O-ring [ A ] with a new one .
Impeller [ B ]
As soon as pressure escapes , the valve closes , and keeps the pressure at 112.3 – 141.7 kPa ( 1.15 – 1.45 kgf / cm ² ) .
If the air passages of the radiator core are blocked more than 20 % by unremovable obstructions or irreparably deformed fins , replace the radiator with a new one .
Using a wrench on the crankshaft rotation bolt , turn the crankshaft clockwise until the 1 | T mark line [ A ] on the timing rotor is aligned with the wating surface [ B ] of the crankcase halves .
Grind the seat at a 32 ° angle [ B ] until the seat outside diameter is within the specified range .
Cap Bolt [ A ]
Insert a new valve [ A ] into the guide [ B ] and set a dial gauge against the stem perpendicular to it as close as possible to the cylinder head mating surface .
When the pressure exceeds 112.3 – 141.7 kPa ( 1.15 – 1.45 kgf / cm ² ) , the pressure valve opens and releases the pressure to the reserve tank .
ECU Power Supply Inspection
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the camshaft sprockets bolts and tighten them .
When the engine is assembled , be sure to adjust the valve clearance ( see Valve Clearance Adjustment in the Periodic Maintenance chapter ) .
If the pressure drops and no external source is found , check for internal leaks .
Install the sprockets so that the marked ( “ IN ” and “ EX ” ) side faces to the right side .
If the seat width is too wide , make the 60 ° or 55 ° [ A ] grind described below .
Draw the fuel out from the fuel tank with a commercially available pump [ A ] .
Take the oil seal [ A ] out of the housing [ B ] with a hook [ C ] .
If the outside diameter of the seating surface is too small , repeat the 45 ° grind [ A ] until the diameter is within the specified range .
Silencer [ C ] with Hole [ A ] for Oxygen Sensor [ B ]
Be sure to hold the measuring cylinder vertical .
Inlet sprocket must use “ IN ” marked bolts holes [ A ] .
Be sure to remove all grinding compound before assembly .
Meter ( – ) → G / Y lead [ 4 ]
Tester ( + ) → W / R Lead
Tighten the M6 cylinder head bolts and M6 cylinder bolts [ A ] .
Heat the area around the valve guide hole to about 120 – 150 ° C .
ECU Fuse 15 A ( see Fuse Inspection in the Electrical System chapter )
If the camshaft journal diameter is less than the service limit , replace the camshaft with a new one and measure the clearance again .
Replace the head cover gasket [ A ] with a new one .
Water Temperature Sensor Connector [ A ]
Camshaft Caps [ B ]
Check the reed contact areas [ B ] of the valve holder for grooves , scratches , any signs of separation from the holder or heat damage .
Breather Plate Bolts [ C ]
Be sure to connect bulbs in series .
If the reading exceeds the service limit , replace the guide .
Disconnect the oxygen sensor lead connector [ A ] .
Be sure to connect the bulb in series .
Second [ B ]
Be certain that all the hoses are routed without being flattened or kinked , and are connected correctly to the air cleaner housing , air switching valve , # 1 and # 2 throttle body holders and air suction valve covers .
Replace the O-rings [ A ] on the water pump housing with new ones and apply grease them .
Unscrew the bolts [ A ] and remove the air cleaner housing [ B ] .
The exhaust cap has a “ EX ” mark [ A ] and the inlet cap has a “ IN ” mark [ B ] .
Visually inspect the gasket [ A ] on the tank cap for any damage .
Apply engine oil to the new O-rings of each injector [ C ] , insert them into the delivery pipe and confirm whether the injectors turn smoothly or not .
Lapper [ A ]
Be sure that the dowel pin [ A ] is in position .
If any of the measurements is less than the service limit on either of the rings , replace all the rings .
Outer diameter of cutter [ C ]
If the cams are worn down past the service limit , replace the camshaft .
Replace the piston and / or the piston rings .
Keep the steam gun [ A ] away more than 0.5 m [ B ] from the radiator core .
Washer [ B ]
Compression Gauge Adapter , M10 × 1.0 :
Apply coolant to the surfaces of the rubber seal [ A ] and sealing seat [ B ] , and install the rubber seal and sealing seat into the impeller by pressing them by hand until the seat stops at the bottom of the hole .
Move the stem back and forth [ C ] to measure valve / valve guide clearance .
When the valve guide is replaced , be sure to grind with 45 ° cutter for centering and good contact .
Radiator Fan Mounting Bolts [ A ]
Inlet Air Temperature Sensor Connector [ B ]
Spring Seat [ C ]
Connect the hand tester ( 25 V DC ) to the fuel pump connector [ A ] with needle adapter set .
Horn Bolt [ B ]
Top Ring [ A ]
Meter ( – )
Repair the valve seat with the valve seat cutters [ A ] .
Replace the ECU if the terminals of the ECU connectors are cracked , bent , or otherwise damaged .
Turn the throttle grip and make sure that the throttle valves move smoothly and return by spring force .
Measure the outside diameter [ A ] of each piston 18 mm [ B ] up from the bottom of the piston at a right angle to the direction of the piston pin .
Push the central pin , and then remove the quick rivets [ A ] .
If the measurement is under service limit , replace the piston .
Therefore the cutter must not be used for other purposes than seat repair .
Valve Stem [ A ]
When the temperature is below 91 ° C – temperature less than ON temperature , the fan relay opens and the radiator fan stops .
BR / R Lead Terminal [ 16 ] of the Meter → Battery ( – ) Terminal
Battery ( – ) Terminal :
Apply silicone sealant [ B ] to the cylinder head as shown .
Install the thermostat [ A ] in the cylinder head so that the air bleeder hole [ B ] is on top .
Never drop the ECU , especially on a hard surface .
Disconnect the breather hose [ A ] on the upper crankcase .
If the dampers are damaged or deteriorated , replace them .
Meter ( – ) → Battery ( – ) Terminal
Fit [ A ] the bracket on the ECU as shown .
ECU Removal
The openings of the oil ring steel rails must be about 30 – 40 ° of angle from the opening of the top ring .
Install the cap [ A ] on a cooling system pressure tester [ B ] .
Delivery Pipe [ B ]
Meter Connector [ C ] ( disconnected )
Install the front camshaft chain guide [ A ] .
Disconnect the battery ( – ) cable terminal .
Remove the fuel hose [ C ] .
If not , replace the piston and all the piston rings .
Heat the area around the valve guide to 120 – 150 ° C , and hammer lightly on the valve guide arbor [ A ] to remove the guide from the top of the head .
Camshaft Installation
Fuel Tank Bolts [ A ]
Valve Spring Compressor Adapter , & b . phis ; 21 :
The tightening sequence No . 1 – No . 5 are the cylinder head bolts that are tightened between the cylinder head with the crankcase .
ECU Grounding Inspection
Measure the injector resistance with the hand tester [ B ] .
Check that the dampers [ A ] are in place on the fuel tank as well .
Be sure that the spacer [ A ] is in position .
If the outside diameter [ A ] of the seating surface is too large , make the 32 ° grind described below .
Release the stopper [ A ] and push the push rod [ B ] into the tensioner [ C ] .
While applying the rear brake , remove the water pump impeller bolt [ A ] .
Injector signals can be also confirmed by connecting the hand tester ( × 10 V AC ) instead of the test light set to the injector main harness ( female ) connector .
– 1,471 kPa ( 9.8 – 15.0 kgf / cm ² ) @ 400 r / min ( rpm )
Visually check the drain hose [ A ] if the water or oil accumulates .
Remove the carbon deposits and replace damaged parts if necessary .
Black [ C ]
Disconnect the subthrottle valve actuator connector [ A ] .
Use a thickness gauge [ A ] to measure the space between the straightedge [ B ] and the head .
Wait until the cylinder head cools down and then ream the valve guide with the valve guide reamer [ A ] even if the old guide is reused .
M10 Cylinder Nut [ C ]
Correct Width [ B ]
Remove the throttle cable lower ends [ A ] from the throttle pulley .
Valve Seat Cutter , 45 ° - & b . phis ; 35 :
Remove the thermostat , and inspect the thermostat valve [ A ] at room temperature .
The crankshaft may be turned while the camshafts are removed .
Turn the crankshaft 2 turns clockwise to allow the tensioner to expand and recheck the camshaft chain timing .
If a new piston is used , use new piston ring .
Meter ( + ) → W / BL lead [ 3 ]
Shall of Piston [ C ]
80.5 – 83.5 ° C
Fuel Pump Bolts [ A ]
Turn the ignition switch ON and ensure that the actuator valves open and close ( make light sounds ) several times within seconds , and then close at the idle throttle opening position .
Torque the all the bolts and nut following the tightening sequence [ 1 – 8 ] .
Fuel Injectors [ C ]
Connect the peak voltage adapter [ A ] and a digital meter [ B ] to the connector [ C ] , using the needle adapter set [ D ] .
About 5.5 – 7.5 k
Install the tensioner so that the stopper faces upward .
– 141.7 kPa ( 1.15 – 1.45 kgf / cm ² )
Fit a new piston pin snap ring into the side of the piston so that the ring opening [ A ] does not coincide with the slit [ B ] of the piston pin hole .
Battery [ C ]
Turn the ignition switch ON and make sure that the fuel pump operates ( make light sounds ) for 3 seconds , and then stops .
If any one of the parts is damaged , replace the mechanical seal as a unit .
ECU Power Source Circuit
Install a new cylinder head gasket [ A ] and dowel pins [ B ] .
Be sure to reinstall the plug in the drain hose after draining .
Remove the bolt [ A ] .
If the surface is corroded , or if the blades are damaged , replace the impeller .
Check the ECU power source voltage with a digital meter [ A ] .
Tester ( – ) → BK / Y Lead
Do not turn over the crankshaft while the tensioner is removed .
If the wiring is good , inspect the ECU for its ground , and power supply ( see ECU Power Supply Inspection ) .
Pull the thermostat [ A ] out of the cylinder head .
961 – 1,471 kPa ( 9.8 – 15.0 kgf / cm ² ) @ 400 r / min ( rpm )
Valve [ C ]
Radiator Fan [ B ]
Cutter angle [ B ]
W / BK Lead Terminal [ 1 ] of the Meter → Battery ( + ) Terminal
Fuel Pump [ B ] and gasket
Oil Ring Steel Rails [ C ]
Replace the fuel pump gasket [ A ] with a new one .
Hold the steam gun perpendicular [ C ] ( not oblique [ D ] ) to the core surface .
Do not remove the subthrottle valve actuator [ A ] since it has been adjusted and set with precision at the factory .
112.3 – 141.7 kPa ( 1.15 – 1.45 kgf / cm ² )
Press the mechanical seal [ A ] out of the housing with a bearing driver [ B ] .
Fit the accelerator cable end [ A ] and the decelerator cable end [ B ] into the throttle pulley .
If wiring and radiator fan relay are good , check the ECU for its ground , and power supply ( see ECU Power Supply Inspection ) .
Visually inspect the terminals [ A ] of the ECU connectors .
Air Suction Valve [ C ]
Install the two bolts [ A ] diagonally in the crankcase .
Such a shock to the ECU can damage it .
12 V × ( 3 – 3.4 ) W
Apply a high temperature grease [ A ] to the new oil seal [ B ] .
Visually check the impeller [ A ] .
Replace the O-rings [ A ] and seals [ B ] with the new ones .
Remove dirt or dust from the fuel pump [ A ] by lightly applying compressed air .
The inlet and exhaust sprockets are identical .
Set the hand tester [ A ] to the × 1 range and connect it to the terminals in the oxygen sensor lead connector [ B ] .
The marks stamped on the back of the cutter [ A ] represent the following .
Cylinder [ C ]
Put the hose through the fill opening [ C ] into the tank and draw the fuel out .
Refer to the Spark Plug Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to all cams [ A ] journals [ B ] and thrust blocks [ C ] with × marks .
With the ECU connectors [ A ] connected , check the following ground lead for continuity with the ignition switch OFF , using a tester and needle adapter set .
Battery [ B ]
Exhaust sprocket must use “ EX ” marked bolts holes [ B ] .
ECU Power Source Inspection
Baffle Plate [ B ]
Check the condition of the bottom [ A ] and top [ B ] valve seals and valve spring [ C ] .
Muffler Body Clamp Bolt [ A ]
If the seat area is not in the right place on the valve , check to be sure the valve is the correct part .
If the corrugated fins [ A ] are deformed , carefully straighten them .
Front Engine Brackets ( Both Side ) [ B ] ( see Engine Removal in the Engine Removal / Installation chapter )
Disconnect the crankshaft sensor lead connector [ A ] .
Connect a commercially available vacuum / pressure pump [ A ] to the nipple of the delivery pipe [ B ] with a high-pressure fuel hose [ C ] ( both ends connected with the clamps [ D ] ) as shown .
ECU Connector
Horn [ C ]
Pull the fuel hose joint [ C ] out of the delivery pipe .
Do not reuse snap rings , as removal weakens and deforms them .
Remove the mounting bolts [ A ] .
Replace the piston and / or cylinder .
Using a wrench on the crankshaft rotation bolt , turn the crankshaft clockwise until the 2 | T mark line [ A ] on the timing rotor is aligned with the notch [ B ] in the edge of the upper hole [ C ] in the clutch cover .
Check the valve seating surface [ A ] between the valve [ B ] and valve seat [ C ] .
If any one of them shows visible damage , replace the cap with a new one .
Thirdly , remove the M10 nut [ C ] .
Pull [ C ] the fuel hose joint out [ D ] of the outlet pipe .
A kinked chain could damage both the chain and the sprocket .
Meter ( – ) → P lead [ 2 ]
Between Terminal 16 ( BR / W ) and Battery ( – ) Terminal
Press the oil seal into the housing with a bearing driver so that the seal surface is flush [ C ] with the end of the hole .
Install the water pump cover , being careful of the two dowel pins [ A ] .
Open and connect [ F ] the end of the lead to the battery ( – ) terminal repeatedly .
Second Ring [ B ]
Install the clamp [ A ] as near as possible to the hose end to clear the raised rib of the fitting .
Install the clutch lever so that the mating surface [ B ] of the clutch lever clamp is aligned with the punch mark [ A ] .
Select the proper bearing insert [ A ] in accordance with the combination of the crankcase and crankshaft coding .
Switch Cover [ A ]
Set the cutting and riveting pin [ B ] as shown .
Spin the wheel lightly , and mark [ A ] the wheel at the top when the wheel stops .
Crankshaft and Connecting Rods
Right Footpeg Stay [ B ]
Check to see that the rim lines [ A ] on both sides of the tire sidewalls are parallel with the rim flanges .
When installing the inserts [ A ] , be careful not to damage the insert surface with the edge of the connecting rod [ B ] or the cap [ C ] .
Air Valve [ B ]
Replace the clutch hub nut with a new one .
If the wheel always stops in one position , provisionally attach a balance weight [ A ] on the rim at the marking using adhesive tape .
Shift Lever [ C ]
Big End Cap [ A ]
Insert a thickness gauge [ A ] between the crankcase main bearing and the crank web at the No . 2 journal [ B ] to determine clearance .
Seating Surfaces of Nuts and Con-rods
An overelongated bolt may break in use .
Be sure that the spacer [ P ] is on the output shaft .
Place the axle in V blocks that are 100 mm [ A ] apart , and set a dial gauge [ B ] on the axle at a point halfway between the blocks .
If it does , the correct balance weight is being used .
Neutral Switch Holder [ B ] and Pin
Switch Terminal Bolt [ B ]
Oil Pump Cover Bolts [ A ]
Install the following on the transmission case [ A ] .
If the clearance is between 0.037 mm and the service limit ( 0.07 mm ) , replace the bearing inserts [ A ] with inserts painted blue [ B ] .
Body [ A ]
Remove the upper crankcase bolts ( M8 ) [ A ] and the washers .
With the connecting rod held vertically , use a height gauge to measure the difference in the height of the arbor above the surface plate over a 100 mm length to determine the amount of connecting rod bend .
Before tightening , use a point micrometer [ A ] to measure the length of new connecting rod bolts and record the values to find the bolt stretch .
Check if the weight portion has any play on the blade [ A ] and clip [ B ] .
Discard the used balance weight .
Shift Drum [ C ]
Remove the oil pipe [ A ] , tapping [ C ] the rod as shown .
Grind [ A ] the pin head to make it flat .
If the springs [ C ] are damaged in any way , replace them .
Shift Drum [ B ]
Remove the following from the transmission case [ A ] .
Rotate the wheel 1 / 4 turn [ B ] , and see whether or not the wheel stops in this position .
About 90 ° [ C ]
Spin [ A ] the bearing by hand to check its condition .
Remove the shift shaft assembly [ A ] .
Set the plate holder ( b ) [ A ] and cutting and riveting pin [ B ] as shown .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to flange [ A ] and the threads [ B ] of the M8 bolts which is tightening order is [ 7 – 10 ] only ( see the next figure ) .
Turn the pin holder with wrench [ B ] clockwise to extract chain pin .
Be sure to hold the front brake when removing the engine , or the motorcycle may fall over .
To minimize vibration , the connecting rods should have the same weight mark .
Install the gear bushings [ A ] on the shaft with their holes [ B ] aligned .
Examine the bearing seal [ B ] for tears or leakage .
Using a plastigage ( press gauge ) [ A ] , measure the bearing insert / journal [ B ] clearance .
Insert a thickness gauge [ A ] between the big end and either crank web to determine clearance .
Oil Pipe Plate Bolt [ B ]
Align the mark [ A ] on the shift shaft with the slit [ B ] on the shift lever .
For the first steel plate [ A ] , its thickness is 2.6 mm . The others are 2.3 mm .
Install the last friction plate [ A ] fitting the tangs in the grooves in the housing as shown .
Line up the slots [ A ] in the clutch lever and adjuster [ B ] , and then free the cable from the lever .
Shift Rod Plate Bolt [ B ]
Install the collar [ C ] .
Select an arbor [ A ] of the same diameter as the connecting rod big end , and insert the arbor through the connecting rod big end .
Footpeg [ B ]
Mark and record the locations of the connecting rods and their big end caps so that they can be reassembled in their original positions .
Shift Shaft Cover Screw [ B ]
Weight Mark , Alphabet [ C ]
Measure the free length of the clutch springs [ A ] .
Filter Plate [ B ]
Press in each bearing [ A ] right until they are bottomed .
Collar [ A ]
The direction of the wheel rotation [ A ] is shown by an arrow [ B ] on the wheel spoke .
Measure the gap [ B ] between the ends of the ring with a thickness gauge .
Cut the gasket around the plate [ B ] .
Install the caliper bracket [ A ] onto the swingarm stop [ B ] .
Tighten the M8 bolts [ 7 – 10 ] .
Spring [ B ]
Bearing Remover Head , & b . phis ; 20 × & b . phis ; 22 [ B ] :
Tighten the M8 bolts [ A ] ( Do not apply molybdenum oil solution ) .
Unscrew the bolts [ A ] and remove the oil pipe [ B ] .
Apply [ A ] molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the rubbing surface between the lever [ B ] and pawl [ C ] and move them two or three times up and down to lubricate them .
Measure the outside diameter [ A ] of the link pin and link plates width [ B ] .
Apply grease to the O-ring [ A ] on the oil screen [ B ] and install it on the lower crankcase half as shown .
Threads [ A ] of Nuts and Bolts
Never reuse the connecting rod bolts .
Flatten out the bended washer [ A ] .
Speed Sensor Bracket Bolts [ A ]
Set the bearing groove [ A ] on the positioning ring [ B ] as shown .
With the big-end arbor [ A ] still on V block [ C ] , hold the connecting rod horizontally and measure the amount that the arbor [ B ] varies from being paralleled with the surface plate over a 100 mm length of the arbor to determine the amount of connecting rod twist .
Be sure to clean the bolts , nuts , and connecting rods thoroughly with a high-flash point solvent , because the new connecting rods , bolts , and nuts are treated with an anti-rust solution .
Be sure that the clamp bolt heads [ D ] face outwards .
Size Color
Be sure that the washer [ A ] is on the shaft .
Dowel Pin [ A ]
Remove the mounting bolts [ A ] and lower fairing [ B ] .
Axle Nut [ B ]
Outer Rotor [ B ] for Feed Pump
Prepare a & b . phis ; 5 mm rod [ B ] , and insert it to the hole of the upper crankcase half .
Pin [ B ]
Valve Core [ B ]
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads and tighten the bolts [ A ] .
When the new ball bearings [ A ] are installed in the transmission case [ B ] , press and insert them until they are bottomed .
If the breather plate [ A ] is to be removed , follow the next procedure .
Rear Brake Caliper [ B ]
Align the white mark [ B ] on the pipe with the white mark [ C ] on the breather fittling .
If cleaning does not solve the problem , replace the oil pressure relief valve as an assembly .
Select the proper bearing insert [ A ] in accordance with the combination of the connecting rod and crankshaft coding .
Pin [ C ]
Remove the engine sprocket nut [ B ] and washer .
Spin the 5th gear quickly [ C ] and pull it off upward .
Stem Seal [ C ]
Set the gear positioning lever to the neutral position [ A ] .
If the clearance is between 0.050 mm and the service limit ( 0.09 mm ) , replace the bearing inserts [ A ] with inserts painted blue [ B ] Check insert / journal clearance with a plastigage .
Place each friction plate or steel plate on a surface plate and measure the gap between the surface plate [ A ] and each friction plate or steel plate [ B ] with a thickness gauge [ C ] .
Refer to Oil Filter Replacement in the Periodic Maintenance chapter .
Align [ C ]
Do not attempt to drive the motorcycle until a full brake pedal is obtained by pumping the brake pedal until the pads are against the disc . The brake will not function on the first application of the pedal if this is not done .
Check that each gear spins or slides freely on the transmission shafts without binding after assembly .
Oil Pipe Plate [ C ]
Clutch Cover [ C ]
If the connecting rods , big end bearing inserts , or crankshaft are replaced with new ones , select the bearing insert and check clearance with a plastigage ( press gauge ) before assembling engine to be sure the correct bearing inserts are installed .
Install the sprocket facing the tooth number marking [ A ] outward .
If not , replace the piston .
Apply engine oil to the bearing [ C ] .
In case of grease seal chain , be sure to set the grease seals correctly .
Shift Rod Plate [ C ]
Shift Drum Cam Bolt [ A ]
Valve Cap [ A ]
Remove the tire from the rim using a suitable commercially available tire changer .
Filter Plate Bolts [ A ]
Slip the balance weight [ A ] onto the rib [ B ] by pushing or lightly hammering [ C ] the clip [ D ] .
Install the circlips [ A ] so that the opening [ B ] is aligned with a spline groove [ C ] .
Transmission Case Bolts [ A ]
Apply water to the rubber of the oil gauge [ A ] and press [ C ] it so that the ring [ B ] face outside .
Install the gear positioning lever [ A ] as shown .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution [ B ] to the inner surfaces of upper and lower bearing inserts .
Check the return spring pin [ A ] is not loose .
Handlebar [ B ]
Exhaust Pipe Manifold Holder Nuts [ B ]
Oil Pressure Switch [ C ]
Spacer [ A ]
Remove the muffler body mounting bolts [ A ] and nut , and pull the muffler body [ B ] backward .
Measure the thickness of each friction plate [ A ] at several points .
Δ : Crankpin Diameter Marks , “ ” or no mark .
Gear Positioning Lever Bolt [ A ]
216 – 294 kPa ( 2.2 – 3.0 kgf / cm ² ) @ 4,000 r / min ( rpm ) , oil temperature .
Install the engine sprocket [ A ] so that “ OUTSIDE ” letters face outward .
Alternator Lead Connector [ A ]
Apply grease to the O-ring [ A ] and install its position [ B ] on the output shaft .
Shift Drum Holder [ B ]
Repair methods may vary slightly from make to make .
Align [ A ] the timing mark on the balancer gear [ B ] with the timing mark on the balancer drive gear [ C ] of the crankshaft .
Put the oil pump chain [ A ] on the clutch housing gear [ B ] and the oil pump sprocket [ C ] .
Currently two types of repair for tubeless tires have come into wide use .
Position the tire on the rim so that the valve [ A ] align with the tire balance mark [ B ] ( the chalk mark made during removal , or the yellow paint mark on a new tire ) .
Engine Sprocket Cover Bolts [ A ]
Turn [ C ] the axle to measure the runout .
Cotter Pin [ A ]
Remove the valve cap , lubricate the stem seal [ A ] with a soap and water solution or rubber lubricant , and pull [ B ] the valve stem through the rim from the inside out until it snaps into place .
Be sure that the dowel pins [ C ] are in position .
Squeeze the brake lever slowly and hold it with a band [ A ] .
If the reading is much higher than the standard , check the oil passages for clogging .
If roughness or binding is found , replace the hub bearings .
If any plates show signs of damage , or if they have worn past the service limit , replace them with new ones .
Apply molybdenum disulfide grease to the portion [ A ] of the oil pump shaft , as shown .
Replace the loose balance weight . Do not reuse used balance weight .
Apply grease to the O-ring [ B ] on the oil pipe .
Shift Drum Holder [ C ] and Pin
Be sure to install the O-rings [ A ] .
Replace any circlips removed with new ones .
Be sure to install the valve core whenever inflating the tire , and do not inflate the tire to more than 400 kPa ( 4.0 kgf / cm ² ) .
Apply a small amount grease to the terminal so that grease should not close the holes [ A ] of the switch cover .
Measure the bearing insert / crankpin [ B ] clearance with plastigage [ A ] .
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to both sides [ A ] of the M9 bolts washers and the threads [ B ] of the M9 bolts .
Install the clamps [ B ] as shown and so that their projections fit [ C ] on the holes of the holders .
Neutral Switch Holder Bolt [ A ]
Oil Seal [ A ]
Using the hole [ B ] , pull out the sleeve [ C ] .
Install new bolts in reused connecting rods .
Install the muffler body connection gasket until it is bottomed so that the chamfer side [ C ] feces muffler body [ D ] .
Rotating Direction [ B ]
Fit the collars [ A ] on the both sides of the hub .
Do not use four or more balance weight ( more than 90 gram ) .
Bearing Remover Shaft , & b . phis ; 13 [ C ] :
If the serration [ B ] are damaged , replace the shaft .
Bearing Remover Head , & b . phis ; 20 × & b . phis ; 22 :
Install the breather pipe [ A ] .
Housing [ A ]
Clutch Spring Bolts [ A ]
Fit the spring [ A ] as shown .
If there are notches worn into the splines , replace the clutch hub .
Turn the release lever [ A ] toward the rear as shown , and remove the clutch cover [ B ] .
Tighten the upper clamp bolt first , and then the lower clamp bolt .
Engine Sprocket Cover [ B ]
Clamp [ A ]
Be sure that the spring hook portions [ B ] are as shown .
Seating Surfaces [ B ] of Nuts and Con-rods
Steel Balls [ C ]
Clutch Hub [ B ]
Journal clearance less than 0.025 mm can not be measured by plastigage , however , using genuine parts maintains the minimum standard clearance .
Install the oil pipe plate [ B ] so that its guide portion [ C ] fits the breather pipe [ D ] as shown .
Set the plate holder ( a ) [ A ] and plate holder ( b ) [ B ] on the body .
Place the piston ring [ A ] inside the cylinder , using the piston to locate the ring squarely in place .
Loosen the locknut [ B ] , and turn the adjusting nut [ C ] to give the cable plenty of play .
Pull the engine sprocket [ A ] with drive chain [ B ] off the output shaft [ C ] .
Be sure to install the balance weight .
Visually inspect the gear dogs [ A ] and gear dog holes [ B ] .
Examine the shift shaft [ A ] for any damage .
If the oil plate [ A ] on the upper crankcase half was removed , install it as shown .
Do not use engine oil or petroleum distillates to lubricate the stem because they will deteriorate the rubber .
Install each connecting rod so that its oil jet [ A ] faces the exhaust side ( the front [ B ] ) ( see Engine Oil Flow Chart in the Engine Lubrication System chapter ) .
Use the bolts attached to new con-rod .
Oil Pressure Gauge Adapter , PT3 / 8 × 19 / in . :
The M9 bolts [ 1 – 6 ] ( see the next figure ) have copper plated washers .
Check that the blade [ A ] and clip [ B ] are fully seated on the rim [ C ] and that the clip is hooked over the rib [ D ] .
Install the oil pipe [ A ] so that its flange [ B ] touches to the surface [ C ] of the upper crankcase half .
Check to see if the valve [ A ] slides smoothly when pushing it in with a wooden or other soft rod , and see if it comes back to its seat by spring [ B ] pressure .
Use the bearing remover to remove the hub bearings [ A ] .
Measure the rim runout , axial [ A ] and radial [ B ] , with a dial gauge .
Install the bearings by using the bearing driver set which does not contact the bearing inner race .
Check that the drive and output shaft turn freely .
Measure the diameter of each shift fork guide pin [ A ] , and measure the width [ B ] of each shift drum groove .
Apply silicone sealant to the area [ A ] where the mating surface of the crankcase touches the clutch cover gasket and to the crankshaft sensor lead grommet [ B ] .
Remove the connecting rod nuts [ A ] .
Press in the grease seals [ A ] so that the seal surface is flush [ B ] with the end of the hole .
Cutting and Riveting Pin [ C ]
Be sure to hang the camshaft chain [ A ] on the crankshaft .
Install the washer so that the OUTSIDE mark [ A ] faces outward .
Do not reuse the air valve .
Shift Rods [ B ]
Apply grease to the O-rings on the oil pipes [ A ] .
Shift Drum [ B ] and Pin
Inner Rotor [ A ] for Scavenge Pump
Shift Rods [ C ]
Tighten the axle clamp bolt [ A ] .
Brake Caliper Mounting Bolts [ A ]
Remove the rear sprocket [ B ] .
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the shift shaft cover screw [ A ] and bolts [ B , C ] and torque them .
Connecting Rod [ B ]
If the bearing is noisy , does not spin smoothly , or has any rough spots , replace it .
Be sure the shift pedal position is as shown .
Bolt [ A ]
5th Gear [ A ]
Set the output shaft in a vertical position holding the 3rd gear [ B ] .
Select an arbor of the same diameter as the piston pin and at least 100 mm long , and insert the arbor [ B ] through the connecting rod small end .
If there is any doubt as to the condition of a needle bearing , replace it .
Crankshaft , Connecting Rods
Use the same type and make of oil that is already in the engine .
Filter [ C ]
Remove the oil pump sprocket boat [ A ] .
Using a press and the bearing driver set [ A ] , install the new ball bearing until it stops at the bottom of its housing .
Replace the clutch cover gasket [ D ] with a new one .
Replace the exhaust pipe gaskets [ A ] and muffler body connection gasket [ B ] with new ones and install them .
Shift Lever Bolt [ A ]
Apply grease to the link pins [ A ] and grease seals [ B ] [ C ] .
Pin [ A ]
Be sure that the dowel pins [ A ] are in position .
If the end gap of either ring is greater than the service limit , replace all the rings .
Oil Screen [ A ]
Shift Lever [ B ]
Press [ C ] the bearing so that the bearing surface [ D ] is flush with the housing end of clutch cover [ E ] .
Release Shaft [ B ]
Oil Pump Cover [ B ]
Shift Forks [ C ]
Size Color [ B ]
Tire Rotation Mark [ A ]
Install the shift rods , noting the groove position .
Oil Pan [ B ]
Output Shaft [ B ]
When the new needle bearing [ A ] is installed in the shift shaft cover [ B ] , press and insert the new needle bearing until it is bottomed .
Speed Sensor Bracket [ B ]
Use a soap and water solution or submerge the tire , and check for bubbles that would indicate leakage .
Front Brake Calipers [ B ]
Measure the thickness of the shift fork ears [ A ] , and measure the width [ B ] of the gear grooves .
Mark here with a punch [ C ] .
Replace the needle bearings and oil seal with new ones .
Clutch Cover Mounting Bolts [ B ]
When using new rings in a used piston , check for uneven groove wear .
When the new oil seal [ C ] is installed in the shift cover , press and insert the new oil seal so that its surface is flush with the end of the hole .
Do not apply liquid gasket to the oil passage [ B ] .
After torquing the engine sprocket nut , bend the one side of the washer [ B ] over the nut .
Washer [ C ]
Install the washer [ B ] and spring [ C ] .
Raise the rear wheel off the ground with stand [ A ] .
Be sure to clean the bolts and nuts thoroughly with a high-flash point solvent , because the new bolts and nuts are treated with an anti-rust solution .
Replace the oil pan gasket with a new one .
Check the gear positioning lever [ A ] and its spring for breaks or distortion .
Axle Clamp Bolt [ A ]
Apply molybdenum disulfide grease to the pusher-holding portion [ A ] on the release shaft .
O-ring [ B ]
Visually inspect the shift drum cam [ B ] .
Insert a regular tip screwdrivers [ A ] [ B ] between the rib [ C ] and the weight [ D ] as shown .
Apply liquid gasket [ A ] to the mating surface of the lower crankcase half .
Crankshaft Sensor [ B ]
Chalk Mark or Yellow Mark [ A ]
On a surface plate , set the big-end arbor on V block [ C ] .
Shift Pedal Damper [ A ]
None
Do not apply any grease or oil [ C ] to the cap inside and cap insert outside .
When installing the oil pan , align [ A ] the damper [ B ] on the breather pipe with the hollow [ C ] on the oil pan .
Insert [ A ] the breather pipe [ B ] on the upper crankcase half through the hole [ C ] on the lower crankcase half .
Apply high-temperature grease to the coupling grease seal lips [ A ] .
Remove the connecting rods from the crankshaft .
Install the crankshaft with the camshaft chain [ A ] hanging on it .
Outer Rotor [ B ] for Scavenge Pump
Be sure that all parts are put back in the correct sequence and all circlips and washers are properly in place .
Support the engine with a stand or jack [ A ] .
Apply silicone sealant to the breather plate mating surface [ A ] 1 mm or more thick , and then install the breather plate .
Mark [ A ] the connecting rod big end caps and nuts so that nuts can be turned 120 ° [ B ] properly .
Oil Pan Bolts [ A ]
Turn each bearing in the hub back and forth [ A ] while checking for plays , roughness or binding .
Pull the transmission assy [ A ] out of the crankcase .
Water Temperature Sensor Lead Connector [ A ]
Follow the repair methods indicated by the manufacturer of the repair tools and materials so that safe results can be obtained .
Clean the bolts , nuts , and connecting rods in a well-ventilated area , and take care that there is no spark or flame anywhere near the working area .
Be sure that the cutting pin hits center of chain pin .
Remove the lower crankcase half and measure the plastigage width [ A ] to determine the bearing insert / journal [ B ] clearance .
Tighten the M6 bolts [ B ] .
Remove the drive chain [ A ] from the rear sprocket toward the left .
Remove the rear sprocket nuts [ A ] .
Push the lever forward and turn the adjuster [ A ] to align the number with the arrow mark [ B ] on the lever holder .
Visually inspect where the teeth [ B ] on the steel plates wear against the clutch hub splines [ A ] .
The 5th gear [ A ] on the output shaft has three steel balls assembled into it for the positive neutral finder mechanism .
Visually inspect the clutch housing fingers [ A ] where the friction plate tangs [ B ] hit them .
Install the needle bearings [ A ] and oil seal [ B ] position as shown .
Slide the dust cover [ A ] at the middle of clutch cable out of place .
After removing the connecting rods from the crankshaft , clean them with a high-flash point solvent .
Needle Bearings [ B ]
Install the grease seals [ C ] .
Screw the handlebar [ A ] into body .
Install the tire bead over the rim flange using a suitable commercially available tire changer .
Apply grease to the sliding area [ A ] of the sidestand [ B ] .
Check that the engine oil level is between the upper [ A ] and lower [ B ] levels in the gauge .
Front Brake Light Switch [ C ]
Use the standard spark plug or its equivalent .
Apply grease to the lower ball bearing [ A ] , and install it onto the stem .
Hook the lower end of the rear brake light switch spring [ A ] on the pedal hook .
Install the brake disc on the wheel so that the marked side [ A ] faces out .
Crankshaft Sensor Peak Voltage Inspection
Unscrew the clamp bolts [ B ] , and take off the master cylinder as an assembly with the reservoir , brake lever and brake switch installed .
Alternator Rotor Tapered Portion [ B ]
Terminal Voltage ( V ) [ A ]
Sleeve [ C ]
Replace the stem cap if its oil seal [ A ] shows damage .
The ignition system produces extremely high voltage .
Insert the ignition switch key [ A ] into the seat lock , turning the key clockwise , pulling up on the rear of the seat [ B ] , and pulling the seat backward .
Put the projection [ A ] into the grommet [ B ] on the rear fender rear .
Replace the cotter pin [ A ] with a new one .
Steering Stem Nut Wrench [ C ] :
Increase the charging voltage to a maximum voltage of 25 V if the battery will not accept current initially .
The caliper body must slide smoothly on the caliper holder shafts [ A ] .
Oil Seal & Bearing Remover :
Check to see that the sealing sheet has no peeling , tears , or holes in it .
Steering Stem Bearing Driver Adapter , & b . phis ; 41.5 [ B ] :
Be sure to install the oil seals to the shock absorber .
If using a recommended battery charger , follow the charger ' s instructions for newly activated sealed battery .
Direction of Rotation [ C ]
Pushing the starter button , turn the engine 4 – 5 seconds with the transmission in neutral to measure the primary peak voltage .
Turn the bearing in the coupling back and forth [ A ] while checking for plays , roughness or binding .
Charge or replace battery .
Do not remove the aluminum sealing sheet [ A ] from the filler ports [ B ] until just prior to use .
Oil Pressure Switch Lead Terminal [ B ]
Charge insufficient → Recharge
The IC igniter is built in the ECU [ A ] .
Stem Bearing Driver , & b . phis ; 28 [ B ] :
Upper Hexagonal Area ( Adapter ) [ B ]
Replace the bearing with a new one .
Remove the bearing [ A ] by tapping from the wheel side .
Loosen the banjo bolt [ A ] at the brake hose lower end , and tighten it loosely .
If no air bubbles [ A ] are coming up from the filler ports , or if the container cells have not emptied completely , tap the container [ B ] a few times .
Then the starter motor should not turn when the starter system circuit is normality .
Measure the length of each brush [ A ] .
Make sure all connectors in the circuit are clean and tight , and examine wires for signs of burning , fraying , etc . Poor wires and bad connections will affect electrical system operation .
When replacing a fuse , be sure the new fuse matches the specified fuse rating for that circuit .
Worn Tooth ( Engine Sprocket ) [ A ]
Using the highest hand tester range , measure the resistance between the segments and the shaft [ B ] .
To remove the bearing outer races [ A ] pressed into the head pipe [ B ] , insert a bar [ C ] into the recesses of head pipe , and applying it to both recess alternately hammer it to drive the race out .
Do not use an ammeter instead of a test light .
When installing the starter motor , clean the starter motor legs [ A ] and crankcase [ B ] where the starter motor is grounded .
Brake Pedal [ C ]
Rear Brake Light Switch Spring [ C ]
Standard Value [ C ]
Any tester reading less than infinity ( ∞ ) indicates a short , necessitating replacement of the crankshaft sensor assembly .
Separate the inner tube [ A ] from the outer tube [ B ] .
Fuse Box with ECU Main Fuse
Check that there are no scratches , rust or pitting on the inner wall [ A ] of each master cylinder and on the outside of each piston [ B ] .
Check the dust covers [ E ] for damage .
– lower than 12.8 V
Fuse Inspection
Circlip [ A ]
The master cylinder clamp must be installed with the arrow mark [ A ] upward .
Headlight Bulb Dust Cover [ A ]
Stator Coil Bolts [ C ]
Lower Hexagonal Area for Tightening [ A ]
Retaining Ring [ B ]
Terminal Bolt and Positive Brushes [ A ]
Crankshaft Tapered Portion [ A ]
Crankshaft Sensor ( see Crankshaft Sensor Removal )
Apply a non-permanent locking agent to the threads of the front and rear brake disc mounting bolts [ B ] .
If it is blown out , replace the fuse .
× 1 Ω range
Pull out the grommet [ C ] .
Then the starter motor should turn when the starter system circuit is normality .
Brake Hose Clamps [ A ]
Clutch Lever → Pulled in
Replace it .
Set a dial gauge [ A ] against the rear sprocket [ B ] near the teeth as shown , and rotate [ C ] the rear wheel to measure the sprocket runout ( warp ) .
This is to prevent ECU ( Electric Control Unit ) damage .
Inspect the needle bearings [ A ] and ball bearing installed in the swingarm .
Check that relief port [ G ] and supply port [ H ] are not plugged .
Rubber Boot ( Slide Out ) [ A ]
Battery Charge Rate ( % ) [ B ]
Disconnect the turn signal lead connector [ A ] .
Using the hook wrench [ A ] , turn the adjusting nut [ B ] to adjust the spring preload .
Pull the center fairing [ B ] evenly outward to clear the stoppers .
Oil Seal & Bearing Remover [ A ] :
Inspect the dust seal [ A ] for any signs of deterioration or damage .
Install the stem [ A ] through the head pipe and install the ball bearing [ B ] and inner race [ C ] on it .
Check that the brake pedal [ A ] is in the correct position .
Fit the projection [ A ] into a small hole [ B ] in the handlebar .
Install the washer [ A ] .
Install the front master cylinder so that the punch mark [ A ] of the handlebar is aligned with the mating surface [ B ] of the master cylinder clamp to level the reservoir .
If the starter motor is not turn , inspect the starter lockout switch , neutral switch and relay box .
Loosen the lower hexagonal area [ A ] for tightening to remove the rear view mirror from the holder .
Set the tester to the × 1 k Ω range and read the tester .
If the steering stem [ A ] is bent , replace the steering stem .
The actual meter reading varies with the meter used and the individual rectifier , but , generally speaking the lower reading should be from zero to one half the scale .
This is to prevent damage to the ECU .
Non-permanent locking agent [ C ] is already applied to the threads of this inner area .
Unscrew the caliper mounting bolts [ B ] , and detach the caliper [ C ] from the disc .
Be sure to use the dedicated electrolyte container for correct electrolyte volume .
Dust Seal [ A ]
Install the needle bearings [ A ] , ball bearing [ B ] and oil seals [ C ] position as shown .
Unserviceable → Replace
Replace the ball and needle bearings [ A ] with new ones .
Battery charging condition can be checked by measuring battery terminal voltage with a digital voltmeter [ A ] .
Apply grease to the upper ball bearing [ B ] and inner race [ C ] .
About 40 mm [ C ] below top of footpeg
Hold the front fork horizontally in a vise [ B ] .
If their parts are normality replace the ECU .
Do not use one which will leave an oily residue .
Remove the reservoir cap [ A ] and diaphragm .
If the runout exceeds the service limit , replace the rear sprocket .
Remove the rear wheel coupling , and inspect the rubber dampers [ A ] .
The starter motor clutch gear should turn clockwise [ B ] freely , but should not turn counterclockwise [ C ] .
If the needle bearing and sleeve [ B ] show any sings of abnormal wear , discoloration , or damage , replace them as a set .
Outer Guide Bushing [ B ]
Never remove sealing cap [ B ] even at charging .
When air enters the brake lines , brake lever or pedal movement will be partially used in compressing the air .
Replace the cotter pin with a new one .
Tail / Brake Light [ A ] ( see Tail / Brake Light Removal in the Electrical System chapter )
If the length [ C ] shown is 70 ± 1 mm , the pedal position will be within the standard range .
Unscrew the brake hose banjo bolt [ A ] on the master cylinder ( see Brake Hose Removal / Installation ) .
Press in the bearing [ A ] until it is bottomed .
Install the new spark plug [ A ] into each stick coil [ B ] , and ground them onto the engine .
Replace the lead or the wiring harness [ B ] if necessary .
Fuse Installation
Replace the damper if it appears damaged or deteriorated .
Whenever the steering stem is removed , or if the steering cannot be adjusted for smooth action , check the steering stem for straightness .
Pull off the reservoir hose lower end [ C ] , and drain the brake fluid into a container .
Pull out the starter motor [ B ] .
Apply grease to the outer races , and drive them into the head pipe at the same time .
Lower Shock Absorber Bolt [ B ]
Replace the circlip with a new one .
Connect the black lead of the adapter to yellow lead and red lead to black lead in the crankshaft sensor connector .
If their parts are normality , replace the ECU .
Steering Stem Bearing Driver , & b . phis ; 42.5 [ A ] :
When using a battery charger , connect the battery to the charger before turning on the charger .
Joint Pin [ B ]
Replace the bulb with a new one .
Using the peak voltage adapter [ A ] is a more reliable way to determine the condition of the crankshaft sensor than crankshaft sensor internal resistance measurements .
Sidestand → Up
Flywheel Puller Assembly , M38 × 1.5 / M35 × 1.5 :
1.2 A × 5 – 10 hours
Install the starter gear [ A ] and washer [ B ] .
Do not pierce or otherwise open the sealed cells [ B ] of the electrolyte container .
Apply a thin coat of molybdenum disulfide grease to the crankshaft [ C ] .
Apply grease to the pivot shaft [ A ] and install the washer [ B ] .
Draw out the holder shaft pin [ A ] , and take off the holder shaft [ B ] .
If there is more resistance than the specified value , the coil has an open lead and must be replaced .
Remove the regulator / rectifier [ B ] .
Once the strip of the caps [ A ] is installed onto the battery , never remove the caps , nor add water or electrolyte to the battery .
Terminal Bolt and Negative Brush Holders [ B ]
Except for the disc pads and disc , use only disc brake fluid , isopropyl alcohol , or ethyl alcohol for cleaning of the brake parts .
Turn the bearing in the swingarm back and forth [ A ] while checking for plays , roughness , or binding .
Fit the projection [ B ] into a small hole [ C ] in the handlebar .
There will be a gap [ A ] at the rear part of the handlebar holder after tightening .
The fluid seal ( piston seal ) [ A ] is placed around the piston to maintain clearance between the pad and the disc . If the seal is in a poor condition , it could lead the pad to wear excessively or the brake to drag , which may cause the temperature of the discs or the brake fluid to increase .
Align the punch mark [ A ] on the handlebar and the corner edge [ B ] on the stem head .
When you do not use the motorcycle for months .
Spark Plug Gap :
Nuts [ A ] and Bolts [ B ]
Measuring Area [ B ]
Repeat the measurement 5 or more times .
Pump the brake lever until it becomes hard , and apply the brake and hold it [ A ] .
Refer to the Interlock Operation Inspection , Ignition System Troubleshooting chart and Fuel System ( DFI ) chapter for ECU Power Supply Inspection .
Using the × 1 Ω hand tester range , measure the resistance as shown .
Battery [ A ]
Loosen the locknut [ A ] and turn the push rod with the hex head [ B ] to achieve the correct pedal position .
Measure the secondary winding resistance [ B ] as follows .
Install the rotor bolt [ B ] and tighten it with 70 N · m ( 7.0 kgf · m ) of torque .
Be sure to bleed the air from the brake line whenever brake lever or pedal action feels soft or spongy after the brake fluid is changed , or whenever a brake line fitting has been loosened for any reason .
Visually inspect the pistons [ A ] and cylinder surfaces [ B ] .
Using the highest resistance range of the tester , measure the resistance between the crankshaft sensor leads and chassis ground .
Right Switch Housing [ B ]
Unscrew the master cylinder mounting bolts [ A ] .
Upper Shock Absorber Bolt [ A ]
If the amperage is equal to or greater than the fuse rating , check the wiring and related components for a short circuit .
Check to see that the caliper holder shafts are not badly worn or stepped , and that the rubber friction boots are not damaged .
Pushing up the stem base , and remove the steering stem nut [ A ] with stem cap [ B ] .
Disconnect the stick coil connectors [ A ] .
Turn the starter motor clutch gear [ A ] by hand .
Washers [ A ]
Adjust the rear view mirror slightly with its mirror [ B ] .
Check that the ignition switch is turned off , and connect the hand tester [ A ] to the battery terminals [ B ] .
Remove the banjo bolt [ A ] to disconnect the brake hose from the master cylinder [ B ] ( see Brake Hose Removal / Installation ) .
Set up a dial gauge against the disc [ A ] as shown and measure disc runout , while turning [ B ] the wheel by hand .
Disconnect the starter motor cable [ B ] and battery positive ( + ) cable [ C ] from the starter relay [ D ] .
Depress the brake pedal [ A ] and then align the bolts holes of the master cylinder [ B ] .
Unlock the hook [ A ] to lift up the lid [ B ] .
Remove the rear fender front [ A ] backward and upward .
Pull the side cover [ B ] evenly outward to clear the stoppers .
Check the piston return springs [ F ] for any damage .
Sidestand → Down or Up
Crankshaft Sensor Lead Connector [ A ]
Be sure to hold the front brake when removing the shock absorber , or the motorcycle may tall over .
Clutch Lever Assembly [ A ]
Left Handlebar Weight [ C ]
Afterward tighten it again with specified torque using a stem nut wrench [ A ] in the direction shown .
When battery is connected → 0 Ω
Apply grease to the coupling internal surface [ B ] .
Clutch Lever → Release
Never replace a defective part without determining what CAUSED the failure .
Battery ( – )
Set the hand tester [ B ] to the × DC 10 V range , and connect it peak voltage adapter .
When battery is disconnected → ∞ Ω
Headlight Bulb [ B ]
Install the torque limiter [ B ] and starter idle gear [ C ] .
Fuse Element [ B ]
Insert the projections [ A ] into the holes [ B ] .
Loosen the upper fork clamp bolt [ A ] and fork top plug [ B ] beforehand if the fork leg is to be disassembled .
Do not use fluid from a container that has been left unsealed or that has been open for a long time .
1.2 A × 5 – 10 h ( see following chart )
Under Bracket [ C ]
Replace the gaskets with new ones .
Kawasaki-recommended chargers
The standard adjuster setting for average-build rider of 68 kg ( 150 Ib ) with no passenger and no accessories is 3rd position .
Pull the bulb [ A ] out of the socket .
Install the alternator rotor [ A ] while turning [ B ] it counterclockwise .
Detach the strip of caps [ A ] from the container and set aside , these will be used later to seal the battery .
Pull the stick coils [ B ] off the spark plugs .
Pull off the joint pin while pressing down the brake pedal .
Fit the projection [ A ] of the bulb in the hollow [ B ] of the headlight .
Slide back the rubber cap [ A ] .
Remove the lower bearing inner race [ A ] which is pressed onto the steering stem with a suitable commercially available chisel [ B ] .
Check that dowel pins [ B ] are in place on the crankcase .
Measure the thickness of each disc [ A ] at the point where it has worn the most .
Tighten the upper clamp bolt [ B ] first , and then the lower clamp bolt [ C ] .
Apply silicone sealant to the alternator lead grommet and crankcase halves mating surface [ A ] on the front and rear sides of the cover mount .
Do not force to tighten and / or loosen the upper hexagonal area ( adapter ) [ B ] with a pair of spanners .
After charging is completed , press down firmly with both hands to seat the strip of caps [ A ] into the battery ( don ’ t pound or hammer . ) .
Fit the dust cover [ A ] with the “ Top ” mark upward onto the bulb [ B ] firmly as shown .
When replacing a sprocket , inspect the chain .
Rear View Mirror ( Right ) [ C ]
If the engine is start , inspect the starter lockout switch , neutral switch and relay box .
Right Handlebar Weight [ C ]
Much less than this resistance means the coil is shorted , and must be replaced .
Tester ( – ) to
Install the hook [ C ] .
Slip the seat hook [ A ] under the brace [ B ] on the fuel tank bracket .
Throttle Cable Tips [ A ]
Release the brake [ C ] .
Remove the battery [ A ] ( see Battery Removal ) .
If the fluid seal is replaced , replace the dust seal [ B ] as well .
About 0.05 – 0.07 V DC
Check that the dust boot [ A ] and friction boot [ B ] are not cracked , worn , swollen , or otherwise damaged .
Insert the cotter pin [ A ] and bend the pin ends [ B ] .
Connect the hand tester [ A ] and 12 V battery [ B ] to the starter relay [ C ] as shown .
Terminals [ C ]
Disconnect the front brake light switch connectors [ A ] .
Charging rates will vary depending on how long the battery has been stored , temperature , and the type of charger used .
If there is any damage to the frame , replace it .
Good [ C ]
Pushing the starter button , turn the engine 4 – 5 seconds with the transmission gear in neutral to measure the crankshaft sensor peak voltage .
Transmission Gear → 1st Position
Brake Lever Pivot Bolt [ A ] and Locknut
Never reuse old brake fluid .
Before replacing a blown fuse , always check the amperage in the affected circuit .
Worn Tooth ( Rear Sprocket ) [ B ]
Inspect the primary cup [ C ] and secondary cup [ D ] .
If the gap is incorrect , replace the spark plug .
1st – 7th position )
Pull off the pivot shaft [ B ] , and remove the swingarm .
Be sure to use the electrolyte container with the same model name as the battery since the electrolyte volume and specific gravity vary with the battery type .
Steering Stem Head Bolt [ B ] and Washer
Remove the pad [ C ] on the piston side .
Starter Motor Clutch Bolts [ A ]
Quickly open and close [ B ] the bleed valve while holding the brake applied .
Hold the alternator rotor steady with the rotor holder [ A ] , and remove the rotor bolt [ B ] and washer .
Turn the ignition switch ON and push the starter button .
Hook [ A ]
Alternator Lead Grommet [ B ]
Remove the front fender [ C ] .
Secure the alternator lead with a holding plate , and tighten the bolt .
Turn the stay [ A ] to assure the safe conditions of the rear with the operator sat on the motorcycle .
If the spark plug center electrode [ A ] and / or side electrode [ B ] are corroded or damaged , or if the insulator [ C ] is cracked , replace the plug .
Be sure to install the oil seal and collar to the swingarm .
Hook the upper end of the return spring [ B ] on the pedal hook .
To test the regulator out of circuit , use three 12 V batteries and a test light ( 12 V 3 – 6 W bulb in a socket with leads ) .
If the tester reading is not specified one , check the crankshaft sensor .
Start the engine to the following conditions .
Remove the meter unit [ A ] ( see Meter Unit Removal ) .
Left Switch Housing [ B ]
Inspect the fuse element .
Again , clean the crankshaft tapered portion [ C ] and dry there .
Pull the frame cover [ B ] outward to clear the stoppers .
Connect the tester between the plug terminal and ( – ) coil terminal .
Nicks or rust damage can sometimes be repaired by using a wet-stone to remove sharp edges or raised areas which cause seal damage .
Loosen the upper fork clamp bolt and lower fork clamp bolts [ C ] .
Remove the starter motor cable terminal nut [ B ] .
Measure the primary winding resistance [ A ] as follows .
Visually inspect the inner tube [ A ] , and repair any damage .
Pull out the main fuse [ B ] from the starter relay with needle nose pliers .
Adapter ( BK , – ) to lead wire-peak voltage adapter ( R )
Remove the shock absorber [ C ] from backward .
Apply a thin coat of molybdenum disulfide grease to the shafts [ A ] , and install them .
Insert the seat latch [ A ] into the latch hole [ B ] .
Oil spilled on any part will be difficult to wash off completely and will eventually deteriorate the rubber used in the disc brake .
Unscrew the swingarm pivot shaft nut [ A ] .
Be sure to disconnect the negative ( – ) cable first .
Using the × 1 Ω hand tester range , measure the resistance between any two commutator segments [ A ] .
Replace the grease seal with a new one .
Place the strip [ A ] of caps loosely over the filler ports .
Connect the peak voltage adapter [ C ] into the hand tester [ D ] which is set to the × DC 250 V range .
Inspect the engine for its secure stop after the following operations are completed .
Set the hand tester to the × 100 Ω range and connect ( + ) lead to the black lead and ( – ) lead to the yellow lead in the connector .
Front Brake Master Cylinder [ A ] ( see Front Master Cylinder Removal in the Brakes chapter )
Brake Lever [ B ]
Make sure that the model name [ A ] of the electrolyte container matches the model name [ B ] of the battery .
Oil Seals [ B ]
Apply silicone sealant [ A ] to the crankshaft sensor lead grommet .
Holding Plate Bolt [ A ] and Plate
Using the flywheel puller [ A ] , remove the alternator rotor from the crankshaft .
Battery Charger [ B ]
Do not use bulb rated for greater wattage then the specified valve .
Pull out the socket [ A ] together with the bulb .
Check that there is no play and the steering stem turns smoothly without rattles .
Sidestand Nut [ B ]
Terminal Width [ B ] : 1.8 mm
Check that the value [ A ] on the left wheel alignment adjuster [ B ] aligns with the same ( left or right ) edge [ C ] of inspection window on the swingarm that the right wheel alignment adjuster value aligns with .
Remove connectors for injector [ A ] .
Remove the cylinder unit [ A ] , washer , and the spring [ B ] from the inner tube .
Install the clamp on the breather hose [ C ] so that its pinch heads [ D ] face the front .
Connect a digital meter [ A ] to the ECU connector [ B ] , using the needle adapter [ C ] .
Disconnect the connector [ A ] from the inlet air temperature sensor .
Connect the test light [ A ] ( 12 V 3.4 W bulb a socket with leads ) and the 12 V battery [ B ] to the fuel pump connector [ C ] .
Compress [ A ] the fork [ B ] upside down to draw out the oil into the suitable container [ C ] .
Gear Positioning Lever [ B ] , Spacer , Washer and Spring
Using a hand tester , check to see that only the connections shown in the table have continuity ( about zero ohms ) .
about 0.05 – 0.07 V DC at Ignition Switch ON and 0 km / h
Cylinder Head Cover Bolts [ B ]
Apply silicone sealant to the seals of the ECU connector for waterproofing .
Clutch Hub Nut [ A ]
Connection and Vehicle-down Sensor [ B ]
Neutral Switch Lead Terminal [ C ]
Insert the new bulb [ A ] by aligning its upper and lower pins [ B ] with the upper and lower grooves [ C ] in the socket , and turn the bulb clockwise .
Neutral Indicator Light ( LED ) ( – )
Pull the fuses [ A ] straight out of the fuse box with needle nose pliers .
Remove the engine mounting bolts [ C ] .
Radiator Fan Motor Connector [ A ] ( Disconnect )
It may take a long time to turn on the test light in case that the fuel reserve switch is inspected just after the fuel pump is removed .
Meter ( – ) → BR / BK lead
Pull off the rubber caps [ A ] from the fitting of each throttle body ( In the photo , the throttle body has been removed for clarity ) .
Air Suction Valve Cover [ B ]
200 kPa ( 2.00 kgf / cm ² )
Meter ( + ) → BL / R lead ( terminal 34 )
Meter ( + ) → BL / G lead ( terminal 33 )
Press and insert [ A ] the new needle bearing [ B ] for the shift drum until it is bottomed .
Disconnect the fuel pump lead connector [ A ] and the tube [ B ] .
Drive Shaft [ C ] and Output Shaft [ D ]
Exhaust Pipe [ C ]
Clamp ( Insert the clamp in the frame . )
If the ground and power supply are good , replace the ECU ( see ECU section ) .
Never drop the oxygen sensor [ A ] , especially on a hard surface .
Connections to ECU
Do not touch the sensing part [ B ] and filter holes [ C ] of the sensor to prevent oil contact .
Unscrew the lower fairing bracket bolts ( both sides ) [ A ] and remove the brackets ( both sides ) [ B ] .
Meter ( + ) → Y / W lead ( terminal 6 )
Meter ( + ) → R ( sensor BL ) lead
Odometer Check
Ground ( – )
Disconnect the ECU lead connectors .
Test Light [ B ]
Press and insert [ C ] the new needle bearing [ D ] for the shift shaft so that the bearing surface is flush with the end of the hole .
Terminal Thickness [ C ] : 0.8 mm
Indicates approximately 60 mph in case the input frequency would be approximately 169.0 Hz .
Hole [ C ] of Upper Cap
Stick Coils [ C ]
If the ignition primary winding # 2 has failures ( no signal , wiring short or open ) , the ECU shuts off the injector # 2 to stop fuel to the cylinder # 2 , though the engine keeps running .
6.0 mm
Install new gasket [ B ] .
Remove the ECU bracket bolts [ A ] .
Suspend an accurate thermometer [ B ] with temperature-sensing projection located in almost the same depth .
Cylinder Head Cover Bolts [ D ]
Remove the shift forks [ A ] and shift drum [ B ] ( see Transmission Assy Disassembly ) .
Retaining Ring [ A ]
Connect a digital voltmeter to the connector , with the needle adapter set .
Valve Spring Compressor Adapter , & b . phis ; 22 : 57001-1202 [ B ]
Put a wooden board [ B ] on the suitable stand .
Clutch Housing [ A ] with Chain [ B ] and Sprocket [ C ]
Shift Rods [ A ]
Spring [ C ]
Valve Seat Cutter Holder , & b . phis ; 5 : 57001-1208 [ B ]
Turn Signal Relay [ A ]
Camshaft Cap Bolts [ A ]
Set the oil level gauge stopper [ B ] so that the distance [ C ] from the bottom of the stopper to the lower end of the pipe is the standard oil level distance .
Pull down the rear fender rear [ A ] .
Meter ( + ) → O lead ( terminal 17 )
The ECU itself cannot be checked or serviced .
Check that when the RESET button is pushed for more than two seconds , the figure display turns to 0.0 .
Meter ( + ) → Y lead ( terminal 20 )
If the display function does not work , replace the meter assembly .
Install the fork spring [ A ] , fork spring seat [ B ] and collar [ C ] .
Set the hand tester [ A ] to the × range and connect it to the air switching valve terminals as shown .
Meter ( + ) → Y / BL lead ( terminal 7 )
Pull out the ECU fuse [ A ] from the fuse box .
Clutch Cable Lower End [ A ]
Remove the fuse ( see 30 A Main / Fuse Box / 15 A ECU Fuse Removal ) .
Trip A / B Meter Check
M9 Bolts [ C ] and Washers
Seat Covers [ C ] ( see Seat Covers Removal in the Frame chapter )
Unlock the hook [ A ] to pull the lid [ B ] .
12 V Battery [ C ]
Plug Hole Gaskets [ A ]
FI Indicator Light ( LED ) ( – )
Connect the 12 V battery [ A ] to the air switching valve terminals as shown .
Connect a digital voltmeter [ A ] to the oxygen sensor connector [ B ] , using the needle adapter [ C ] .
The speed equivalent to the input frequency is indicated in the oscillator [ A ] , if the square wave ( illustrated as shown ) would be input into the terminal [ 5 ] .
Oil Pressure Warning Indicator Light ( LED ) ( – )
Remove the upper [ A ] and lower [ B ] caps on the clutch cover .
Set the hand tester to the DC 25 V range and connect it to the terminals [ 10 ] and [ 3 ] .
Measure the outside diameter [ A ] of each piston 5 mm [ B ] up from the bottom of the piston at a right angle to the direction of the piston pin .
If the voltage is less than 8 V , replace the meter assembly .
Disconnect the oil pressure switch terminal [ A ] .
Meter ( + ) → BL lead ( terminal 8 )
Air Suction Valve Cover [ A ] with Hose [ B ]
When a problem occurs with the DFI system and ignition system , the FI indicator light ( LED ) [ A ] goes on .
Shift Forks [ B ]
The actual meter reading varies with the meter or tester used and the individual diodes , but generally speaking , the lower reading should be from zero to one half the scale .
Valve Spring Compressor Assembly : 57001-241 [ A ]
Remove the cotter pin [ B ] .
Fork Spring Seat [ C ]
Bearing Remover Shaft , & b . phis ; 9 [ B ] : 57001-1265
Top Plug [ A ] with O-ring
The ECU detects atmospheric pressure when the ignition is switched ON .
Starter Motor Cable
Oil Pump Body [ C ] with Oil Pump Shaft [ D ] and Pin
Upper Fork Clamp Bolts [ A ]
Piston Pin Puller Assembly [ A ] : 57001-910
When the ignition switch is turned ON with the above connectors disconnected , the service codes ( 13 , 64 ) are stores in the ECU .
If the light ( LED ) does not go on , replace the meter unit .
Separate the meter assembly [ A ] and upper meter cover [ B ] .
Be sure that the spacer [ A ] is on the output shaft [ B ] .
Check the trip A or B meters with the speedometer in the same way .
Remove the top plug [ A ] with O-ring , take out the collar [ B ] , fork spring seat [ C ] , and fork spring [ D ] .
To check air flow through the air switching valve , just blow through the air cleaner hose [ C ] .
ECU Connector [ A ] ← → Throttle Sensor Connector [ B ]
Collar [ B ]
Bearing Remover Head , & b . phis ; 10 × & b . phis ; 12 : 57001-1266
Inner Guide Bushing [ A ]
Left Switch Housing Lead
Battery ( – ) → BK Lead Terminal
Align [ C ] the projection on the radiator with the hole on the frame .
Fuel Pump Connector [ C ]
Do not disconnect the relay box and ECU connectors .
If the inspection checks good , the ECU is damaged .
Press in the oil seal [ A ] onto collar [ B ] so that the surface of the oil seal is flush with the surface [ C ] of the crankcase .
Remove the crankshaft [ A ] .
Mounting Bolts [ A ]
Soft Water :
To the Vehicle-down Sensor , Crankshaft Sensor and Rear Brake Switch
A sound scope [ C ] can also be used .
D-J Method and α - N Method : When the engine load is light like at idling or low speed , the ECU determines the injection quantity by calculating from the throttle vacuum ( inlet air pressure sensor output voltage ) and engine speed ( crankshaft sensor output voltage ) .
Remove the meter unit by taking off the mounting screws [ C ] with the washers .
If each lights ( LED ) does not go on , replace the meter assembly .
Turn over [ A ] the reserve tank , remove the cap , and pour the coolant into a suitable container .
Steering Stem Head Bolt Plug [ B ]
Remove the oxygen sensor [ A ] .
Rating of Bulb [ A ] : 12 V × 3 - 3.4 W
Clutch Holder [ C ] :
Connect a digital voltmeter [ A ] to the ECU connector [ B ] with the needle adapter set [ C ] .
Unscrew the upper [ A ] and lower [ B ] caps on the clutch cover .
Disconnect the clutch cable clamp [ A ] on the cylinder head cover .
Remove the bolts and lift up the right footpeg stay [ A ] .
Injector Power Source Voltage at ECU
Loosen the clamp and remove the radiator hose [ A ] from the water pump cover [ B ] .
If the figure display does not indicate 0.0 , replace the meter assembly .
Hose ( Disconnect ) [ A ]
Then the tester indicator should flick [ B ] .
Air Suction Valve Cover Bolts [ A ] and Clamp
While the engine is running , the ECU also presumes atmospheric pressure by analyzing the waveform of boost pressure over fixed period .
Tester ( + ) → W / Y lead [ D ]
Cable , Wire , and Hose Routing
Grab Rails [ A ] ( see Seat Covers Removal in the Frame chapter )
Remove the front axle [ B ] .
If the reading stays on battery voltage , and never shows 0 V . Check the ECU and fuel pump relay .
Meter ( + ) → BR / W ( terminal 12 )
Screws [ C ]
Clamp ( Insert the clamp from air cleaner side . )
Turn Signal Lights [ B ]
M6 Bolts [ A ]
The revolutions per minute ( rpm ) equivalent to the input frequency is indicated in the oscillator [ A ] if the square wave ( illustrated as shown ) would be input into the terminal [ 6 ] .
Inner Rotor [ A ] for Feed Pump
Thermostat Hosing [ B ]
Clutch Spring Plate [ B ] ( with thrust bearing and pusher [ C ] )
Bolt [ B ]
Unscrew the bolts [ A ] and remove the oil pump chain guide [ B ] .
If value indicated in the trip A / B meters is not added , replace the meter assembly .
Gasket [ C ]
Thermostat Hosing Bolts [ A ]
If value indicated in the odometer is not added , replace the meter assembly .
Shift Shaft Cover Bolts [ A ]
Use the fork oil level gauge [ A ] to measure the distance between the top of the inner tube to the oil level .
The actual reading varies with the hand tester used .
Holder and Duct Clamp Bolts [ C ]
Meter ( – ) → BR / BK lead ( terminal 22 )
Clamp ( Insert the clamp in the bracket . )
Install the radiator [ B ] to the frame .
Rating of Bulb [ C ] : 12 V × ( 3 - 3.4 ) W
For KLEEN , do not push-start with a dead battery ( Connect another full-charged battery with jumper cables , and start the engine using the electric starter )
Remove the cylinder base [ A ] from the bottom of the outer tube .
Ground the self-diagnosis terminal [ A ] ( Yellow lead ) to the battery ( – ) terminal or battery ( – ) lead connector , using a wire .
Bottom [ B ] of Left Footpeg Stay
Stem Head Bolt [ C ]
# 2 Injector Connector [ A ]
Drive Shaft [ A ]
If the output voltage is out of the specified , check the ECU for its ground , and power supply ( see ECU Power Supply Inspection ) .
Install the oil ring expander [ A ] in the bottom piston ring groove so the ends [ B ] butt together .
Wheel Flange Portion [ A ]
15 A ECU Fuse Removal
Remove the right switch housing and take out the accelerator cable upper end [ A ] and the decelerator cable upper end [ B ] .
Remove the shift pedal [ A ] ( see Shift Pedal Removal in the Crankshaft / Transmission chapter ) .
Speed Sensor [ B ]
Pull up the inlet air pressure sensor [ C ] .
Blow the air to the inlet air duct [ A ] , and make sure does not flow the blown air from the outlet air duct [ B ] .
Radiator Hose Clamp Screw [ B ] ( Loosen )
Apply molybdenum disulfide oil solution to the inner surface of upper and lower bearing inserts [ A ] .
The relay box [ A ] has relays and diodes .
Install the fork with the upper end of the inner tube flush [ A ] against the top surface of the stem head [ B ] .
Water Temperature Sensor ( – )
Install the grommet [ A ] so that its large side faces the front .
Between Terminal 12 ( BR / W ) and Battery ( – ) Terminal
Check the DFI electronic control system ( injectors , sensors , crankshaft sensor , and ECU ) .
Check the inlet air pressure sensor output voltage , using the following formula and chart .
If the display function does not work and adjust , replace the meter assembly .
Meter ( + ) → BK lead ( terminal 35 )
Clamp ( Through the sidestand switch lead and oxygen sensor lead in the clamp . )
Disconnect the speed sensor lead connector [ A ] .
Push and turn the bulb [ A ] counterclockwise and remove it .
Meter ( + ) → BK / G lead ( terminal 44 )
Battery Negative ( – ) Terminal to Terminal [ 7 ]
Be sure the damper [ C ] is on the end of the breather pipe [ D ] .
Starter Motor Cable [ B ]
Valve Seat Cutter Holder Bar : 57001-1128 [ C ]
Horn Leads [ A ] ( Disconnect )
The oxygen sensor must send signals ( output voltage ) continuously to the ECU
Stick Coils [ A ]
ECU Connectors
Inner Rotor [ C ] for Feed Pump
Between Terminal 27 ( W / BK ) and Battery ( – ) Terminal
Meter ( + ) → BL lead [ E ]
Remove the water pump cover bolts [ C ] .
Trace [ A ] each side of the speed sensor surface with the screw driver .
Visually inspect the impeller [ A ] .
Apply grease to the lip of the oil seal [ C ] .
Install the holder clamp bolts [ A ] in the direction shown with each bolt heads [ B ] , facing outwards .
If the wiring is good , replace the injector ( may be clogged ) or ECU .
Remove the Allen bolt [ A ] from the bottom of the fork .
12 V 3.4 W Bulb ( Other Side ) → BL Lead Terminal
Connect the speed sensor connector [ A ] with the battery [ B ] , 10 k Ω resistor [ C ] and hand tester [ D ] as shown .
Any modification is not necessary in this model since the inlet air pressure sensor senses inlet air pressure change due to high altitude and the ECU compensates the change .
Meter ( – ) → BL ( sensor BR / BK ) lead
Radiator Hose Clamp Screw [ A ]
If the segments do not disappear , replace the meter assembly .
Install the air cleaner duct clamp screw [ A ] so that their screw heads [ B ] face the right .
Compression Gauge Adapter , M10 × 1.0 : 57001-1317
Shift Shaft Cover [ C ]
Apply the tip of a screwdriver [ A ] to the injector [ B ] .
Using a wrench [ A ] on the crankshaft rotation bolt , turn the crankshaft clockwise until the " 1 | T " mark on the timing rotor is aligned with the notch [ B ] in the edge of the upper hole in the clutch cover for # 1 piston and " 2 | T " mark for # 2 piston .
Take the ECU [ B ] out along with the harness .
Disconnect the subthrottle sensor connector and ( black ) connect the harness adapter [ A ] between these connectors .
If a new camshaft is to be used , apply a thin coat of a molybdenum disulfide grease to the cam surfaces .
Check that the display [ A ] change to the mile and km display each time by pushing the RESET button while MODE button pushed in .
M8 Bolts [ B ]
Tester [ C ]
If the wiring is good , inspect the ECU for its ground and power supply ( see ECU Power Supply Inspection ) .
Holding the clutch hub [ B ] , remove the nut and washer .
If the speed sensor system fails ( no signal , wiring short or open ) , the speedometer shows 0 , and the ECU sets the top ( 5 ) gear position .
12 V Battery [ A ]
Center Seat Cover [ B ] ( see Seat Covers section in the Frame chapter )
Check that the display change to the CLOCK , ODO , TRIP A and TRIP B displays each time the MODE button [ A ] is pressed .
Remove the oil level gauge [ A ] .
Speed Sensor Electric Source Check
Dowel Pins [ C ]
Remove the oil passage plug , and attach the adapter [ A ] and gauge [ B ] to the plug hole .
Tachometer [ A ]
Air Switching Valve Connector [ A ] ( Disconnect )
Battery ( + ) → 12 V 3.4 W Bulb ( One Side )
Fuel Hose Lower End [ B ]
Ignition Switch Lead Connector
Steering Stem Nut Wrench [ A ] : 57001-1100
The fuel hose is designed to be used throughout the motorcycle ' s life without any maintenance .
License Plate Light Cover [ B ]
Apply molybdenum disulfide grease to the pusher ends [ A ] and install it in the clutch spring plate [ B ] .
Tester ( – ) → Battery ( – ) Terminal [ E ]
Connect a digital voltmeter [ A ] to the oxygen sensor connector [ B ] ( main harness side ) , using the needle adapter set [ C ] .
Crankshaft sensor must send 17 signals ( output signal ) to the ECU at the one cranking .
Disconnect the headlight connectors [ A ] and city light connector [ B ] .
Notify Registered Owners :
( NB : THIS VERSION IS FOR KME DISTRIBUTORS ONLY )
Unscrew the screw [ A ] and remove the lens [ B ] .
Plug [ A ] the air switching valve hose [ B ] end with your finger and feel vacuum pulsing in the hose .
If the needle does not flick , replace the meter assembly .
Date
Europe
Serial No .
Dust Seal [ B ]
Seat Lock Cable Lower End [ A ]
If necessary translate it into your local language .
When battery is connected → 0
Subject
Units within the following Frame Number range are eligible for repair .
Brush Plate and Negative Brushes [ B ]
Remove the 4 rubber dampers and 4 collars from the meter bracket .
Suspend the sensor [ A ] in a container of coolant so that the temperature-sensing projection [ C ] and threaded portion [ C ] are submerged .
Inner Fairing [ B ]
Add a white paint mark after the VIN as shown .
Meter Assembly Removal
Oil Seal [ C ]
White paint mark
V . I . N .
US
Identification mark on the backside of the new meter
On some eligible units , the clock face / glass of the meter assemblies may be tarnished making the meters look dirty or causing customer dissatisfaction .
Always check for the “ Repair Verification Mark ” before repair .
Flywheel Puller Assembly , M38 × 1.5 / M35 × 1.5 : 57001-1405
Check that the speedometer shows the speed .
Set the tester to the × 1 k range and read the tester .
Reason Code
By following the repair procedure , repair all eligible units , including sold units in the field and unsold units in Dealer and Distributor inventory .
These bolts may come loose and the vehicle down sensor may detach from the bracket .
Kawasaki Action
000069 through 007553
Terminal Bolt and Brush Plate [ A ]
Disconnect the negative ( – ) cable [ A ] .
Kawasaki has determined that a potential problem exists on your machine .
Punch Mark here
Y
Meter Assembly New Meter Identification Mark
Please check for the “ Repair Verification Mark ” before repair .
Remove the meter from the machine .
The God reappears and offers him the opportunity to return his old self ,
( Cause unknown )
If you have any further questions about this recall action , please contact your Kawasaki dealer or call Kawasaki Customer Service on .
Repair the vehicle :
One day , three princes daringly approach the Sultan
000065 through 007624
Number of Units
After completing the repair , make a small punch mark at the front of the frame number on the right side of the steering head .
0.42 N . m
Technical Information Section , Kawasaki Motors Europe N . V
Eligibility
Damper Rubbers
On eligible units , the bolts ( 92153-1597 ) of the vehicle down sensor may not have been tightened sufficiently during assembly .
Remove the brush plate [ A ] from the plate cover [ B ] .
Meter Assembly
Insert the tabs [ A ] into the holes [ B ] .
Chain Cover Bolts [ A ] and Cover [ B ]
SERVICE
DA9760L_EU Page 2 of 4
Causal Part No .
Serial Number Range
King Midas requests the ability to turn all things he touches
2 white paint marks
Remove the upper fairing bracket [ B ] .
Trouble / Reason code
Make a note of the original mileage and write it in the Repair and Replacement Record page of the Customer Warranty Booklet .
Kawasaki has initiated a RECALL ( FDM ) campaign to repair all eligible units .
V . I . N . System
Warranty Information
Replace the fuel pump .
The repair consists of tightening the bolts to the correct torque .
Grab Rails [ B ]
Notify all owners of eligible units about the recall by sending a letter using the text Kawasaki has provided with this service information .
0.3 hour
Pull the air switching valve hose [ A ] out of the air cleaner base .
After installing the washer , install the oil seal [ A ] by using the fork oil seal driver [ B ] .
Remove the tail / brake light [ C ] .
Trouble Code
Page 1 of 4
Repair Verification
Allen Bolts
Meter-Assembly
can make her feel happy .
this makes her feel sad .
Notify all owners of eligible units about the FDM by sending a letter using the text Kawasaki has provided with this service information .
Sidestand Switch [ B ]
Install the vehicle down sensor and tighten the bracket bolt ( A ) .
he loves watching her dance .
Frame Number Range
VIN :
Measure the free length [ A ] of the fork spring [ B ] .
000002 through 000208
Factory Directed Modification
Hold the cylinder unit [ C ] with the special tools and tighten the bottom Allen bolt to secure the cylinder in place .
The sneaky king
Bracket
EU
Install the positive ( + ) cable [ A ] first .
No parts are required for this repair .
Replace the terminal bolt assy and / or the brush plate assy .
Accordingly , Kawasaki has initiated a safety recall to repair affected machines .
Insert the cylinder unit and the spring into the inner tube , and install the cylinder base [ A ] onto the cylinder end [ B ] that protrudes from the bottom .
This can cause the engine to stall while riding or prevent the engine from stopping in the event of a fall creating the potential for an accident resulting in injury or death .
The repair consists of replacing the Meter Assembly .
Please contact him to arrange an appointment for the work to be carried out .
Your Kawasaki dealer will carry out the necessary work at no cost to you .
Special Claim ID No .
5.9 to 7.9 N . m
Pharaoh ´ s birthday party .
reappears
Check digit , XXXXXX :
The table includes units for markets other than Europe in case of unofficial imports which are also eligible for this repair .
Using three different stories God shows the humans that if they stop being jelous , stop being greedy and cooperate together
Clamp the springs [ A ] with the clips [ B ] .
The repair consists of replacing the meter assembly .
( Other meter problem )
E
Model : XXXXXX
Blow the air to the inlet air duct [ A ] again , and make sure flow the blown air from the outlet air ducts [ B ] .
Take off the starter motor through bolts [ A ] and remove the both end covers [ B ] and pull the armature out of the yoke [ C ] .
000196 through 008147
Oil Pressure / Water Temperature Warning Indicator Light ( LED ) [ C ]
( 2 ) Repair the vehicle :
Cover the positive ( + ) terminal with the cap [ B ] .
Fuel Level Warning Indicator Light ( LED ) ( – )
Flat Rate
The electric source voltage and speed sensor are normal , replace the meter assembly .
Using three different stories God shows the humans that if they stop being jelous
The costs will be reimbursed upon your warranty request .
INFORMATION
Sidestand Switch Bolt [ A ] with Clamp
D
Holding the timing rotor with the flywheel & pulley holder [ B ] and unscrew the rotor bolt [ C ] .
The repair will take around 15 minutes to complete .
Tighten the vehicle down sensor bolts ( B ) .
5.9 N . m
Remove the lower shock absorber nut and bolt [ A ] .
Qty
Part No .
Serial Number ,
The repair consists of tightening the vehicle down sensor bolts to the correct torque .
Customer name and address :
Install the windshield and tighten the screws .
( For KME branches only :
We apologise for any inconvenience caused but we have taken this action in the interests of your safety and continued satisfaction with our product .
Remove the windshield screws and windshield .
Parts Information
Insert the 4 rubber dampers and 4 collars to the meter bracket of the new meter assembly .
Claim Type
Install the negative ( – ) cable [ C ] .
Replace the brush plate assy and the terminal bolt assy .
Remove the brake hose banjo bolt from the rear caliper , free the brake hose [ A ] from the clamps [ B ] , and remove the footpeg stay with the rear master cylinder ( see Rear Caliper Removal in the Brakes chapter ) .
If you have any further questions about this action , please contact your Kawasaki dealer or call Kawasaki Customer Service on ( tel . no . to be added for each distributor ) .
Detail
Accordingly , Kawasaki has initiated a Factory Directed Modification campaign to repair affected machines .
On eligible units , the clock face / glass of the meter assemblies may be tarnished making the meters look dirty or causing customer dissatisfaction .
Remove the handlebar holder [ B ] and then pull out the handlebar .
Install the new meter assembly in the reverse order of removal .
Measure the diameter [ A ] of the commutator [ B ] .
Eligible Units
The repair will take approximately 20 minutes to complete .
According to our records you are the owner of the Kawasaki product detailed above .
( 1 ) Notify Registered Owners :
May 30 , 2006
Market Specification
Causal Part
SERVICE INFORMATION
Remove the timing rotor [ A ] .
O
000073 through 007738
Repair Procedure
Bolts [ B ] with Collar ( Both Side )
If the LCD segments and LED warning lights will not appear , replace the meter assembly .
Apply non-permanent locking agent to the threads of the bottom Allen bolt [ A ] .
Remove the handlebar holder bolts [ A ] .
Kawasaki has initiated a Factory Directed Modification ( FDM ) campaign to repair all eligible units .
× 1 range
Mounting Screws [ A ]
BOLT
Screws [ A ] and Cover [ B ]
Footpeg Stay [ B ]
I
VIN : XXXXXXXXXXXX
Jul . 26 , 2006
Align the lines [ A ] on the yoke with the end cover lines [ B ] .
Slide out the positive ( + ) terminal cap [ B ] and then disconnect the positive ( + ) cable .
Remove the screw [ A ] .
Smooth the commutator surface [ A ] if necessary with fine emery cloth [ B ] , and clean out the grooves .
Insert the projections [ A ] of the center seat cover into the holes [ B ] of the side seat cover .
Front Fork Clamp Bolts ( Upper ) [ C ] ( Loosen )
KME will send the notification letter directly to warranty registered customers
Clamps
On eligible units , the vehicle down sensor bolts may not have been tightened sufficiently during assembly .
Unscrew the mounting bolts [ B ] .
When battery is disconnected → ∞
Insert the coil as shown being careful of the coil heads [ A ] direction .
The eligible VIN range is shown below .
Customer Letter
Place a suitable container under the alternator cover [ A ] , and remove the cover bolts [ B ] .
Washers [ B ] and Terminal Locknut [ C ]
Tightening of the bolt for Vehicle Down Sensor - RECALL-
Fit the armature [ C ] to the brush plate assy [ D ] .
Install the new O-ring [ A ] as shown .
Screw Rivets [ C ]
Take out the relay box [ A ] and disconnect the connectors [ B ] .
Then the tachometer needle [ A ] should flick [ B ] .
Distributor and Dealer Action
The following part is required for this repair .
Rose is his favourite daughter
it ´ s Pharaoh ´ s birthday party .
Meter Assembly Installation
Kawasaki has determined that a potential safety problem exists on your machine .
Refer to the appropriate sections of EJ650A ( W650 ) Service Manual ( P / No . 99924-1245-01 / 08 ) .
For KME branches only : KME will send the notification letter directly to warranty registered customers
Bolt [ A ] and Cover [ B ]
Remove the vehicle down sensor bracket bolt ( A ) .
Remove the bracket screws [ A ] and turn signal light [ B ] .
Steering Stem Head Bolt Plug [ A ]
Remove the brush plate assy [ A ] from the yoke [ B ] .
Rose also has a dream
This is a Factory Directed Modification ( FDM ) .
Using three different stories God shows the humans that if they stop being jelous , stop being greedy
NOTE : It is not sufficient to replace the Cover-Meter Upper Case only , replace the whole Meter Assembly .
Lower Meter Cover [ B ]
are jelous of
Male Connectors [ B ]
Quick Rivet [ B ]
Starter Motor Clutch [ A ]
Slide the dust cover [ A ] and remove the connector [ B ] .
Under Bracket [ A ] ( see Upper Fairing Bracket Removal in the Frame chapter )
A number of units will be repaired in Kawasaki warehouses before shipping .
If any is worn down to the service limit , replace the brush plate assy [ B ] and the terminal bolt assy [ C ] .
Replacement of the Meter Assembly
Terminal Bolt and Yoke [ C ]
Install the brush plate [ A ] to the plate cover [ B ] as shown .
If you no longer own the machine detailed in this letter , please URGENTLY , complete the relevant details overleaf and send it back to us in the FREEPOST envelope provided ( no stamp required ) .
Put the projection [ A ] into the hole [ B ] of the seat cover .
Right Stay Cover [ A ]
Measuring voltage , Negative connection
Series connection
diode .
By clicking with your mouse on the switch you can close it .
What to be aware of in the vehicle battery
The program is now showing you where you need to apply the test probes to measure voltage U3 .
be able to read circuit diagrams
To do this please switch the audio off by clicking on the speaker system in the footer bar .
The intensity of the light serves to intensify the voltage .
You have allocated everything correctly .
Here you can see the working steps taken by the twotechnicians comparedto each other .
A different design - electrolytic capacitor
Even ifthey don ' t like it , it can not beignore .
At the end of the chapter you are introduced to the thyristor , a silicon controlled rectifier , and
be familiar with how electricity works
Would you like to see an example of a fault diagnosis and repair to a motorcycle or a car ?
Click on the display of the multimeter to copy the measurement reading to the table .
The atomic nucleus consists of protons and neutrons .
Why only some materials conduct electricity
The object being measured in the electric circuit - no voltage applied :
You have not yet completed a measurement of the current .
Now measure voltage U2 .
Generally speaking , neither specialist know-how norspecial diagnostic tools are required for successful fault diagnosis .
Functions of the vehicle battery
Advantage :
The battery coil ignition
Electrical current cannot be directly seen , smelt or tasted .
Diode in d . c . voltage mode and in a . c . voltage mode - a comparison ( 2 )
Measuring procedure
How they work and uses for Zener diodes
The equilibrium of the two forces is responsible for their stable orbits .
Select the correct answer .
Parallel circuit of resistors
The structure of an atom
The flow of current varies depending on the brightness
A special feature when inducing voltage
Now you have applied the test probes correctly .
And now it ' s your turn .
Wear to contacts .
Time
The information you have given is incorrect .
Mike Rush has wasted half a day , and has dismantled two motorcycles , without any tangible result .
Its resistance changes depending on the intensity of the light
Typical semiconductor materialsinclude silicon and germanium .
fragmenting .
Welcome , Introduction
Charge carriers , Forces
The battery test revealed that the battery is in good condition .
- > Need for cooling
Charging and discharging the capacitor
coming from outside , such as vibrations from the vehicle , be
ADVANTAGE
one hundredth = x 0.01 ( 10-2 )
Sensitive to temperature
Mechanic Mike Rush has been given the task of completing the repair work .
Repairs to the car or motorcycle ?
As when measuring current all preparations are complete for the measurement .
Measuring tasks , which only require a single action from you , are an exception to this .
The same problem with the vehicle - a different mechanic on the job
To make your choice , click on the respective image .
Electrical current is the directed movement of the free electrons in a conductive material .
He has been working for 5 years in his job and has recently completed an electrics course .
Arrange the correct working steps in order .
Your answer is correct !
how electronic and electrical components are designed and how they work ,
Magnet , coil , voltage
• Magnetic effect When current flows along a conductor , a magnetic field forms around the conductor .
Repairing faults with vehicle electrics is not a hit and miss thing !
This force of attraction is the product of the different charges of the atomic nucleus and electrons .
As anticipated , the car starts and Rushhas a feeling of satisfaction , because once again he has proved that , it is hard to match him in terms of experience and skill .
Charging the battery
Advances in electrics and electronics
Measuring instruments
Now measure the voltage across the switch .
You won ' t measure voltage U1 in this way .
You won ' t measure voltage U3 in this way .
You have not yet opened the electric circuit , which is necessary in order to measure current .
Measuring using an ammeter
The program will now disconnect the light bulb for you .
Hover your mouse over the legend text .
Shell , Copper atom , Electron shells
Switching symbols
Honda - Basic principles of electrics
Please complete all allocations , before you confirm by clicking on OK .
PURE … … … … … … … … violet
Copper :
Now disconnect the wire in the correct place by clicking on the wire with your mouse .
After you have successfully completed this course , you will have the basic knowledge to be able to methodically and systematically repair faults and defects in vehicle electrical systems .
Final engine start test
The atom is an unimaginably small mass particle , of which all matter consists .
You won ' t measure voltage U3 like this .
Unlike charges mean that particles have an unequal electrical charge .
Correct .
Self-induction when switching off
Cable colour codes
Working steps taken by mechanicRush :
Pulse for the ignition
Crystal lattice , Metal compound , Free electrons
Persistently flat motorcycle battery - rectifying the fault
Correct the order you have selected and confirm by clicking on OK .
Introduction to electrical engineering
Measurement across U2 / switch ON
Earth connection , e . g . vehicle earth
If electric current flows through the human body , larger intensities of current cause muscle cramps which can even lead to cardiac arrest .
He doesn ' t tire of enthusing about the fantastic sound produced by the system , particularly the rich bass tones and describes how much his friends enjoy it when he fills the air with the vibrating sounds of music in the car park outside his favourite bar .
Final test
Iron-cored transformer , e . g . the ignition coil
Incorrect cabling to the amplifier ' s voltage supply
Mixed circuits ( 1 )
The arrow indicates that the switch is drawn in actuated
With his 20 years of professional experience he is one of the most senior technicians and approaches his work with a well established routine and enthusiasm .
If you have disconnected the voltage source from the circuit and continue to measure the component being measured whilst it is in the circuit , you will get an incorrect result .
have a cavity , no vibrations can occur inside them ; nor can oscillations
Switching on the multimeter
Measurement across U2 / switch OFF
The requirements for successful diagnostics and fault repairs :
Forward characteristics of the diodes
Positive connection :
Enter the nominal value for U1 into the table and confirm by clicking on OK .
This electric current effect can be used , for example , for immersion heaters , hotplates or for the heating of seats and rear windscreens in cars ; however , it can also be used in the form of fusible links as overrange protection for the electrical installation .
Design
Atomic cores
What is electrical current
in it .
Click on the wire with your mouse to disconnect it and confirm by clicking on OK .
You have indeed selected all of the correct statements , as well as some incorrect ones .
You will find out how diodes are designed , and how they behave in electrical circuits
Measurement across U1 / switch OFF
The switching status is retained after actuation .
Unfortunately , the polarity was still incorrect , which is why the measuring device was displaying a negative value .
On your second attempt you have made some incorrect and correct allocations .
Force of attraction
Design and function of the reed relay
If particles have the same electrical charge , they are said to be like charges .
Help
one millionth = x 0.000 , 001 ( 10-6 )
non-conductive .
Correlation between voltage , current and resistance ( 1 )
Now enter in the table the voltage value .
The measurement readings recorded in the exercises are always theoretical values , which will never occur as such when working in the repair workshop .
Electric conductors and insulators
Which statements are correct ?
Fitting the controller-rectifier unit
The information you have given is incorrect !
What are you currently more interested in ?
He has a vague recollection that quite some time ago he was successful with a similar problem after fitting a new alternator .
The measurements should therefore always be taken at the corresponding temperature .
A conversation develops in which the customer relates with visible pride that a few weeks ago he upgraded the sound system in his Civic .
Electrical power
Positive connection , Task
Persistently flat motorcycle battery - repair
Now measure the current before the light bulb , at position I1 .
That means that the positive terminal is connected with the consuming device via the switch .
To complete this exercise now measure the voltage once again across the light bulb , which is designated here by U3 .
Post
An interesting conversation
The element delivers voltages if light strikes it .
Wrong answer .
What does a negative connection mean ?
Wrong !
Power generation by means of motion
He disappears into the repair workshop .
If you do not take the component being measured out of the electric circuit when measuring resistance ,
8.5 mV
Before completing the measurement enter into the table the nominal value for voltage measurement U1 when the switch is closed , that is when the switch is set to ON .
Mechanic , John Smart
In contrast on the circuit diagram the measurement of the battery voltage U1 has been completed correctly , when you apply the test probes to the positive wire and negative wire of the voltage source .
Measurements on the circuit diagram
Analogue multimeter
No implosion :
Continue . . .
To confirm his suspicion , which was based on a one-off experience , mechanic Rush replaces all of the components in question .
Rectification - but which one ?
That is correct .
Chemical processes when charging and discharging a lead-acid battery
Definition of voltage
The low value gives Mike Rush a new idea :
Currently the switch is open .
You have still completed the measurement incorrectly .
Now close the switch by clicking your mouse .
Current measurement I1
close
HORN
Do you still know what it is ?
That is incorrect like that !
Click on the switch to close it .
Measuring voltage
The Civic ' s battery constantly goesflat .
Model of the generator
Step - Applying the test probes
You have switched the device off .
hundred times = x 100 ( 102 )
Next he measures the charging voltageat the battery when the engine is running .
Please choose whether you would like to see an example working on cars or motorcycles .
PNK … … … … … … … . . pink
Analogue multimeter ( 1 )
That is wrong .
Based on the atomic number if there are only a few electrons on the outermost shell , these electrons can be caused to move under the influence of an electric current , flowing from atom to atom .
BLK … … … … … … … . . black
with brake lights in a car for example , which are connected to the earth via the housing .
The culprit can only be the regulator-rectifier unit .
What do you think ?
like charges ( positive )
Smart discovers that when the ignition is turned off current is being discharged from the battery .
In this chapter using the model of the structure of an atom you will find out how electrical current is created ,
The measurement of charge current displays a current flow .
Contents :
Excellent
You have learned which working steps to take in the measuring procedure and in which order you need to complete them .
How each individual completes this task varies widely .
Model of an atom
Principles of Electrical Engineering :
Such atoms are electrically neutral .
The drop in voltage at the conducting transistor causes heat to develop .
Theseorbits are referred to as shells .
In terms of practical experience in the repair workshop this also means that problems and faults canoccur with electrics and electronics in vehicles , which require rectification .
Design and identification the vehicle battery
If the test probes are not all located on a measuring point , then please drag the two test probes onto the wires .
That is the voltage across the resistor , as you can see .
There is a voltage drop of 12 volts between the positive wire and the return wire to the battery , irrespective of whether the switch is open or closed .
Measuring U1 is the same as measuring the battery voltage .
one thousandth = x 0.001 ( 10-3 )
Later that afternoon the vehicle is handed back to the customer .
You will learn about the basic values of electricity , and find out how these values are measured .
He stayed on an idyllic camping site right by the sea .
The measuring device is in this case
Relay which is normally open
Now measure the voltage between the positive wire and return wire to the battery .
Coils
The multimeter has been set up correctly and is ready for use .
Complete atoms are electrically neutral .
Relay , general
solution
How voltage is generated
Electrical semiconductors :
In this case
DC motor , e . g . wiper motor or blower motor for interior ventilation
BRN … … … … … … … . . . brown
Implications for repair workshops
Then enter your measuring results into the table .
Please check your setting and try again .
Now observeJohn Smart , and watch how he approaches the problem .
Measurement across U3 / switch OFF
Multimeter
From this he concludes that the chargingsystem is not functioning correctly .
Resistor
Reproduce the diode paths for the two types of transistor !
The cause :
unsuccessful fault diagnosis = 4 hours
The same problem - different mechanic
Measuring voltage , OFF switch , Positive connection
It is a light-dependant resistor , also called a photoresistor .
Induction voltages arise when a relay is switched off .
it will result in two different errors .
required before starting the measurement , have already been completed .
How a diode works
Battery or accumulator .
The following abbreviations are used for the cable colours in the circuit diagrams .
SOLENOID
It is just before closing time - enough time toremove the battery and charge it over night .
The next morning Mike Rush does not hang around long and fits the alternator taken from a second-hand Civic on to the customer ' s vehicle .
You can see this from the minus sign .
Male connector , female connector
There is a danger with the
Design of the capacitor
Feedback
WHT … … … … … … … white
As they do not
On electrical systems in a vehicle you usually measure the voltage of components or consuming devices at their plug-in connections .
Time required :
Setting the highest a . c . voltage range
Design , functionality and performance of a diode
understand the design and functionality of electrical and electronic components
From this it is simple to trace what the cause is .
The transformer
Measuring error
A special feature of induction
You measure the voltage between the positive wire and return wire to the negative terminal of the voltage source , marked in the circuit diagram as U1 ,
Crystal lattice
You won ' t measure voltage U2 like this .
A few weeks ago he successfully passed an electrics course .
Also remember when checking the resistance values of components , that many resistance values relate to the ambient temperature or to a temperature of 20 degrees Celsius .
The voltage remains constant , as before .
Properties of relays
Now in order to measure resistance apply the test probes to the ends of the wire ,
content
So that you can complete the practice exercises more effectively , the measurements to be completed in the circuit
Unfortunately , you haven ' t selected all of the correct statements .
To him it ' s obvious what the problem is .
Iron
RHEOSTAT
These results are not at all in keeping with the fact that the battery is constantly discharging .
The structure of the atom
Now measure voltage U3 and confirm by clicking on OK .
This not only applies in respectto motor vehicles , but motorcycles as well .
Persistently flat motorcycle battery - fault diagnosis
You have selected all of the correct statements .
Substances with free moving electrons , are called electric conductors .
The multimeter displays a very low but constant value .
warning
Design of a relay
n NO contact
Light-emitting diode ( LED )
Drag the test probes for the measurement onto the wire and then confirm by clicking on OK .
It is only recently that he has been having problems with the flat battery .
Just before closing time he is handed the vehicle from the customer and decides toinvestigate the cause of the problem the next morning .
You won ' t measure voltage U2 in this way .
Drag the test probes to the ends of the bulb wire .
IG = I1 + I2 Resistance :
Insensitive to over-currents , which makes it ideal for switching filament lamps ( PTC behaviour ) .
like charges ( negative )
You are wrong .
REED SWITCH
and if you are able to use the multimeter correctly , in other words you know how to take measurements correctly , then youwill beable to trace the causes of faults and defects by taking simple readings .
YEL … … … … … … … . . yellow
Please start this exercise again by clicking on the " Repeat " button .
There are electrically charged particles in all materials .
That is the resistance of the wire and of all consuming devices and components
Detailed information about semiconductors can be found in the Semiconductors chapter .
in the chapter " Ohm ' s Law and how to apply it " .
Current measurement I2
Inductivity with an iron core ( solenoid ) , such as an induction transducer
Then confirm by clicking on OK .
Digital multimeter ( 1 )
Connection with a connector ( bottom ) and socket ( top )
UG = U1 = U2 Current intensity :
12,000 V
Voltage , Flow of electrons
be able to take measurements correctly
Photo resistor :
Japanese graphic symbols
million times = x 1,000 , 000 ( 106 )
Possible applications for photoresistors
As an experienced professional he knows that the alternator is often faulty in these models .
You can work through the program from start to finish by clicking on the next button or by specifically selecting individual topics using the menu on the left-hand side of the screen .
step - Connecting the test cable
If the conductor is wound into an iron-cored coil , this magnetic field intensifies , and the coil acts as an electromagnet .
After fitting the alternator he connects the charger to the batteryand now has time to concentrate on other jobs .
Self-induction
In addition to this you will learn how the Zener diode works and what it is used for .
In the following measuring exercises on this course , you must always observe these working steps and their correct order .
Every motor vehicletechnician is confronted with faults with vehicle electrics and electronics and is required to repair them effectively .
Try again .
Almost right !
Mechanic Rushdoes not hang around long . He now replaces the entire stator coil assembly , housed in the side cover .
The onboard electrics in vehicles and the use of electronic components , in particular digital control elements , has become even more widespread over the last few years .
HEATING
Relatively insensitive to temperature .
Even when checking the charging performance of the alternator , John Smart was not able to find anything obviously wrong .
Current directions
and why only some materials conduct electricity .
It also depends on the direction
Photodiode
Mixed circuits
Now measure the resistance of the light bulb .
Brake light circuit
Implications of an incorrect resistance measurement
Things to watch out for when measuring current
The customer ' s enthusiasm can hardly be curbed .
Temperature-dependent resistor ( PTC )
excessive pressure inside the cavity ( implosion ) or by over-pressure
How the capacitor works
Correct this error and apply the test probes correctly .
Magnetoresistor
Measuring resistance
PLUG-TYPE CONNECTOR
( explosion ) .
Based on a one-off previous experience Rush quickly replaces a component without checking whether his assumption was correct .
Charging the battery over night
A customer visits thedealership with his Honda Civic , Type R . His problem :
You have learned about the procedure for taking measurements .
Unfortunately , you have not allocated anything correctly .
U = R * I Current intensity :
Measuring the charging voltage
Diminution
On each shell only a limited number of electrons can exist , on the innermost only two , on the next one eight , and so on .
Vehicle battery
Working with test probes
component in a circuit , to which a voltage is being applied , it is as if you were connecting an additional voltage source to it .
The program now disconnects the wire for you in the correct place .
diodes do not have any hollow parts .
Ohm ' s Law
This will blow
This rules out the risk of
What you need to watch out for when measuring voltage on the circuit diagram
You allocated everything correctly on your second attempt .
Comparison :
The steps are checked in the practice exercises , without you being expressly reminded to do so .
Capacity of the capacitor
IGNITION TRIGGER
The fact that the vehicle starts after charging the battery , still doesn ' t mean that it won ' t discharge any further in the future .
one billionth = x 0.000 , 000,000 , 001 ( 10-12 )
Final test :
Rectification using diodes
The circuit is made after actuation .
Change the alternator
During the handover of the car John Smart asks the customers about the fault that has occurred .
Fitting the alternator
Voltage induction
0.2 A
Not bad !
the fuse in the device or worse still damage the measuring device itself .
PUMP
The resistance rises as the temperature rises .
Now measure voltage U1 and confirm by clicking on OK .
0.1 k Ω
In practice you measure this voltage from the battery terminals .
Properties of capacitors
Hum-free :
What is electrical current ( 1 )
If , under certain conditions , the current flows through a gas , such as neon , the gas is induced to emit light .
Charge the battery
Welcome
Try .
Measuring electrical values
Once again he measures the battery voltage while the engine is running .
Generating a . c . voltage
Now measure voltage U3 with the switch open and confirm by clicking on OK .
How a PNP transistor and an NPN transistor differ
Measurement across U1 / switch ON
? electrical pressure
One after the other - but make sure they are correct !
You won ' t measure voltage U1 like this .
In contrast to vehicle bulbs which possess a glass tube , light-emitting
Different approaches
Thyristor and Z diode
The resistance drops as the temperature rises .
0.2 kV
This means the device is not simulated in full in order to avoid incorrect settings .
Functions of the transformer
Series circuit of resistors ( 1 )
Measurement across U3 / switch ON
Step - Switching on
The measuring device is not fully functional for the measuring tasks in this program .
The negatively charged electrons are attracted by the positively charged protons .
He now completes a voltage drop testof the charging circuit .
Electrical current is therefore defined as the directed movement of the free electrons in a conducting material .
Look to see how you correctly apply the test probes .
Substances , which depending on their state are conductive or
No voltage drop can be measured across the light bulb , as there is no difference in charge at the input and the output of the light bulb .
A multimeter and a solid understanding of electrical and electronic processes are sufficient to be able to resolve most problems with vehicle electrics .
Sorry , wrong again .
Different types of hybrid
Filament lamp
He ' s not happy that this battery problem has occured .
Relay which is normally closed
Measured value converted into
and the voltage across the light bulb , designated as U3 .
Drag the test probes to the ends of the wire .
The quiescent current test finally provides some information .
steps
Mike Rush no longer knows what he can do and tries to get help over the telephone .
Formulas
Centrifugal force
The break-contact relay switches the load circuit , when the control circuit is opened .
Relay - Transistor
Conversely , the physiological effect of the current is used for the treatment of cardiac dysrhythmia .
In the exercises in this course you must disconnect the wires in the circuit diagram .
the first step is given , a check mark appears on the display and you are then given the next prompt .
Testing the alternator ' s charging performance
Enlargement
Light-dependent resistors
Voltage V ?
The make-contact relay switches the load circuit , when the control circuit is completed ( closed ) .
The program has corrected your error .
Base voltage of the transistor
Now measure the voltage across the closed switch .
After fitting the new unit he measures the voltage on the battery terminals .
Measuring voltage , Positive connection
Now measure voltage U2 with the switch open and confirm by clicking on OK .
Unlike mechanical problems , the causes of faults with electrics can rarely be identified at first sight .
Now disconnect the light bulb from the electric circuit .
Yesterday , just before closing time , he had taken on the customer ' s vehicle .
prefixes
Cable insulators are mono-coloured or and have a base colour with a different coloured stripe .
Freely moving electrons in metal compounds
electrical devices
Now apply the test probes to measure the current intensity at the ends of the wire .
Measuring charging voltage
He does not know of any other method for tracing the fault .
Relays are electromagnetic switches .
Diodes and rectification
Lamp test after switching off the ignition
Therefore , John Smart measures the resistance of the alternator winding while the engine is cold .
Do you need help on how this works ?
After he has ruled this out , he isolates the cause of the fault by completing additional measurements .
• Chemical effect Electric current is capable of triggering chemical processes .
The flow of electrons under voltage
Measuring quiescent current
Switch , NO contact
Effective forces in the atom :
Design of the transistor
Current meter
Electric line , the wire
• Effect of heat Depending on the intensity of the current , the conductor through which the current is flowing may heat up .
Setting the measuring range
GRY … … … … … … … … grey
The electric current separates the chromium metal from the dissolved metal salt CrO3 , whereby the negative O3 ions migrate to the anode ( electric plus pole ) , and the positive chromium ions migrate to the cathode ( electric minus pole ) .
In the case of a complete atom the atomic nucleus has exactly as many positive charges ( protons ) , as there are electrons revolving around it .
All doesn ' t seem well , as the customer is very upset . He is definitely not a satisfied customer .
Diode
During this course you will complete several measurements one after another .
Ratio of number of windings to voltage
This morning he can dedicate himself to the motorcycle without rushing .
It is therefore clear to John Smart that the power supply through the alternator is not sufficient in spite of the fact it is in perfect condition .
Special resistors
But once again , nothing .
Protons - positive charge
Please make a selection before you confirm by clicking on OK .
Metal and carbon are typical conducting materials , which are used in electrical appliances .
If you apply voltage to a conductor or if you exert a magnetic force onto it , the free electrons start to drift and aflow of electrons is created .
The information you have given is now correct .
You haven ' t set the correct measuring range .
Stop
That means that the negative terminal is connected with the consuming device via the switch .
Now enter in the table the nominal value for voltage measurement U2 .
The charging voltage reading displays an increase in the voltage when the engine is running
Step - Setting the measuring range
The battery voltage remains constant .
and how they are used for rectifying alternating current in vehicle electrics .
LT GRN … … … … … … . light green
Measuring using a voltmeter
It is now positioned behind the light bulb .
A nominal value means that you should enter whatever value you expect , when you work on the basis of the specified battery voltage .
The measurement with the engine running shows . . .
Illustration of direct current
Copper only has one electron on its outermost shell , which is why it is an excellent conductor of electricity .
are marked by an arrow and the symbol numbered in series .
Welcome to the training
The object being measured in the electric circuit - voltage applied :
The measuring device is not fully simulated .
Fitting another battery
The measured voltage is significantly lower than the charging voltage .
Working steps taken by mechanic Rush :
Different graphical symbols
The two measuring wires are not in the correct sockets .
Voltage :
For example , the electric pulses of a pacemaker are used to stimulate a regular heartbeat .
Two lines cross in the circuit diagram but do not create an electrical connection .
Measuring resistance - an example
Negative connection :
Ohm ' s law and how to apply it
In order to provide power to the amplifier , the customer diverted current directly by connecting to the battery positive terminal instead of using a wire from the accessories power supply , which is disconnected from the power when switching off the ignition .
Resistance depending on the magnetic field .
Measuring the resistance of the alternator winding
Before the measurement :
Illustration of delta and square-wave current
The long dash indicates the plus pole and the short one indicates the minus pole .
propagated .
Voltage drops in the electric circuit
Voltmeter
Component earth
The procedure when completing a task is as instructed - step by step .
Until you follow this prompt , no other actions are possible using the measuring device .
In spite of constantly running the engine the battery voltage does not increase .
Persistently flat car battery - rectifying the fault
LT BLU … … … … … … . . light blue
You will not have recorded the resistance value of the component being measured , but the resistance of the total circuit .
To do this you must first the close the switch .
AND circuit
Measuring result for the rectifier diodes
Electrons - negative charge
What is voltage ( 1 )
Connecting the battery to the charger
Fault with the car
Effects of electric current
Transformer ( power supply unit ) which converts AC voltage to DC voltage .
Your next task is to measure voltage U2 .
I = U / R Resistance :
You have selected incorrect and correct statements .
DIODE
Correct series resistor for an LED - second example
In this way you are not disconnecting the light bulb from the electric circuit .
Participants , who are working in another language version , can display the audio text in their own language .
Please select the precise measuring range .
UG = U1 + U2 Current intensity :
Comparing the working steps takenof the twotechnicians highlights the difference in their approach .
Now measure voltage U1 when the switch is open .
Mike Rush , is given the task of rectifying the problem .
Principles of the measuring procedure
The customer has visited thedealership because something appears to be wrong with the battery on their CB 500 . It is constantly going flat .
Electromagnets are a primary component of electric motors , current generators and relays .
The electrons of the atom orbit at different distances from the atomic nucleus .
The ampere as a unit of measure
Now measure the voltage across the open switch .
Potentiometer
Basic knowledge and skills
The resistance measurement is now complete .
Inductive pick-up
The next morning the battery test reveals that the battery is in perfect working order .
Tables of units
This is the case
Now enter any voltage that you are expecting for U1 , when the switch is open , that is when set to the OFF position .
Resistant to vibrations
The battery is constantly discharging - fault diagnosis
Charging and discharging graph of a capacitor
for
The positive terminal is connected with the consuming device via the switch .
the more free electrons , the higher the conductivity
We wish you every success !
Good .
• Effect of light Electric current generates light in filament lamps because the filament heats up to such an extent that it emits light .
Behaviour of the PNP transistor ( 1 )
Measure the voltage across the resistor .
You have now done it correctly .
Using the multimeter measure the full battery voltage with the switch open .
In this case it is this section of wire .
Voltage drops in the electric circuit ( 1 )
Behaviour of the NPN transistor ( 1 )
Forces between electrical charge carriers
For example , it breaks down electrically conductive , dissolved or molten chemical compounds which are referred to as electrolytes .
Test
Now enter in the table the nominal value for the voltage measurement across U2 .
The multimeter ' s fuse is faulty .
Things to watch out for when measuring resistance
A voltage drop of 12 volts can be measured across the light bulb , as the battery voltage is applied to the light bulb due to the closed switch .
One advantage of this type of connection is that the earth lead can be omitted if the consuming device or component that is being controlled has an earth connection anyway .
• Physiological effect Electric current is dangerous to the human body .
Measuring the charging current
Now measure voltage U3 across the light bulb .
It is just before closing time .
If you know what electricity is ,
LIGHTER
Effecting forces in the atom , Electrical charge , The structure of the atom
A semiconductor module which can switch or intensify electrical signals .
LIGHT-EMITTING DIODE ( LED )
Loading progress
which are connected to the light bulb .
Electric conductors :
Very good .
status .
you are given the prompt in the text instructions for
NC contact
position of the switch .
Illustration of alternating current
This is what you will learn in this chapter
What is voltage
Measuring using the ohmmeter
the task .
Now measure voltage U3 .
An increase in
that the voltage is rising very steadily .
Abbreviation
Only low control currents are required .
The transistor as a controllable switch
ORN … … … … … … … . orange
digital technology
perhaps it is the battery that is in fact faulty .
What a diode consists of
For example , rubber , glass , porcelain or plastics . Such plasticsare frequently used for insulating electrical wires .
There is a centrifugal force , which causes the electrons to drift away from the atomic nucleus ,
What is electrical current ?
To measure current the multimeter must be connected into the electrical circuit in series .
Hall-effect pulse generator - voltage type
electronic control of mechanical operations
Using the reed relay
Correct series resistor for an LED - first example
The charging cable connector from the regulator-rectifier unit to the battery has suffered severe corrosion .
But the voltage continues to remain constant .
Single-way rectification
Then the properties of relays and transistors are compared and their advantages and disadvantages are also compared with one another when used in vehicle electrics .
More Information about
( Voltage )
Rush ' s work is quite unsystematic .
To be able to accept your measurement , switch the device back on .
Repairs to the car or motorcycle
This enables precisely calculated layers of chromium to be applied to components which are electrically conductive or which can be made to conduct electricity .
On your second attempt you have made some but not all of the correct allocations .
Inserting test cable into the device
When measuring resistance a voltage is applied to the component being measured .
Causes of faults are rarely easy to identify
Measuring the voltage between the output of the controller-rectifier unit and the battery
More frequent occurrence of faults or breakdowns in vehicle electrics
Click on the field and enter the value into the corresponding table column .
Motor start test
CAPACITOR
This will
Still wrong .
For this reason , they cannot be damaged by
Now enter in the table the nominal value for voltage measurement across U3 .
. Electron shell = 2 electrons
Electric switch , electronic switch
Enter the nominal value for U3 into the table and confirm by clicking on OK .
will find out how a transistor is designed and how it is used in vehicle electrics .
Fitting and removing an alternator
Introduction - Practical examples
Substances without free moving electrons
What is electrical resistance
Measuring voltage between the controller / rectifier-output and the battery
the voltage across the switch , U2 ,
Measuring resistance , Rules , Dangers
Exercise
loading page
In addition , there are specially processed materials , which can be conductiveor non-conductive under particular conditions .
Now see how mechanic , John Smart , approaches the same problem .
After the measurement :
Principles of vehicle electrics / electronics "
DIN switch symbols
Now complete these working steps in the correct order .
Measuring the charge current at the same time reveals that current is being drawn from the battery .
He can still clearly remember exactly such a case he did five years ago .
Constantly low voltage reading for the battery
I1 = I2 = I3 Resistance :
Generating voltage and measuring voltage
Branching-off of a line with an electrical connection , e . g . screws , soldered or crimped
During the handover of the motorcycle , John Smart chats with the customer .
A relay only permits low switching frequencies .
Special resistors ( 1 )
Wrong , you have applied the test probes incorrectly .
GRN … … … … … … … . green
Unlike charges attract one another .
Current flow and measuring current
You have indeed measured the correct value , but in the wrong section of wire .
You have applied the test probes to the correct portion of the wire .
Correlation between voltage , current and resistance
Sequence of working steps
Heconfirms that the voltage is not correct .
Types of voltage and current
In doing so he determines that between the outputof the regulator-rectifier unit and the battery over 2 voltsis being lost .
When you have completed the action ,
Final result :
Practical examples
To do this using the mouse click on the wire above and below the light bulb .
Measuring the battery voltage
BLU … … … … … … … . blue
Pushbutton
You have selected all of the correct statements , as well as some incorrect ones .
Learning content
Switch which is normally open
unsuccessful fault diagnosis = 1 hour
Then please feel free to get help by clicking on the question mark in the footer bar .
blow the fuse in the device or worse still damage the measuring device itself .
FILAMENT LAMP
With an indication of polarity
Circuit with four diodes - a new comparison ( 1 )
Please confirm your entry by clicking on OK .
On your second attempt you have indeed made all of the correct allocations , as well as some incorrect ones .
Measurement on the rectifier diodes
Photo element ( solar cell )
Battery test
From the used model , from which he had already removed the regulator-rectifier unit , he takes out the battery and fits it to confirm his suspicion .
The measurementconfirms that the windings areperfect .
Brake light circuit ( 1 )
DISADVANTAGE
Measuring instrument :
The value is in the normal range .
Enter the nominal value for U2 into the table and confirm by clicking on OK .
Practical example :
thousand times = x 1,000 ( 103 )
Now enter in the table the nominal value for voltage measurement U3 .
Current measurement I3
And there is nothing to say that this development might have come to an end .
For measuring tasks involving only one action - the prompt is in the text instructions .
Fitting and removing the controller-rectifier unit
Window
Temperature-dependent resistor ( NTC )
An information-gathering conversation
Testing diodes - measuring resistance
The program is now showing you where you need to apply the test probes to measure voltage U2 .
109g
Interaction between a photoresistor and transistor
Capacitor
The atom consists of an atomic nucleus around which a specific number of electrons revolve .
Site map
. Electron shell = 1 electron
ANTENNA
Measure the voltage once when the switch is closed and once when it is open .
This process of decomposition is used during chromium plating .
Measuring voltage , OFF switch , Negative connection
Without delay - as he usually does - he gets down to the work and replaces the regulator-rectifier unit .
Two resistors :
one thousand millionth = x 0.000 , 000,001 ( 10-9 )
The new measurement while the engine is running does indeed provide a higher voltage value .
Measuring current on the battery
CONNECTION
The second colour is the colour of the stripe .
Search
You haven ' t paid attention to the polarity , which is why there is a negative value before the measurement reading .
An electronic switch
The battery is constantly discharging - repair
Properties of the NPN transistor
Audio versions are available in German and English .
Now measure voltage U1 .
Electrical insulators :
Chemical power generation
Determining current intensities of a silicon diode
Principles of measuring technology
What is WMTC ?
After all , there are important things to do there .
Sheet1
This means that like charges repel one another and unlike charges attracteach other .
Now try and measure voltage U1 .
The behaviour of the light bulb before the coil
After his lunch break , Mike Rush starts the car .
You have not entered a nominal value .
Applying the test probes
No voltage drop can be measured across the switch , as there is no difference in charge before and after the switch .
Be able to apply formulae for calculating electrical values
RESISTOR
THERMISTOR
On the inside of the atom two opposing forces are at work , causing the electrons to be kept in their orbits .
Circuit diagram
Magnetism
He is keen to demonstrate this technology .
EARTH
Current is not scary for everyone !
Switch , changeover contact
substances with free moving electrons
A look at the model of an atom helps to understand the phenomenon of current .
For this reason the amplifier was also being continuously supplied with power from the battery when the ignition of the Civic was not turned on resulting in the battery discharging .
Negative connection , Task
Now measure voltage U2 across the light bulb .
if you are familiar with and are able to apply the formulae on the basis of which electrical values are calculated ,
Very low drop in voltage at the closed NO contact ; therefore , losses and heating are minimal .
Z diode ( 1 )
the voltage source .
Incorrect .
Measuring the terminal voltage on the battery
Measuring current , Special features , Working steps
In practice to do this you disconnect the electric circuit at the terminal connections and plug-in connections .
Three days later Mike Rush notices the customer of the Civicin conversation withhis boss .
Virtually wear-free .
Switch which is normally closed
Properties of vehicle batteries
In this chapter you will learn about the design of semiconductors and how they work .
No voltage drop can be measured across the light bulb , as no voltage is applied to the light bulb due to the open switch .
Compared to him , by completing appropriate measurementstechnician Smart first checks whether a faulty component is the cause of the problem .
The changeover relay switches back and forth between a control circuit and a load circuit .
SPEAKERS
As a result higher contact resistance is created during the charging process .
Current
Series circuit of resistors
Hall-effect pulse generator
The electrical circuit that you have finished measuring is referred to as a positive connection .
or
He has been working as a technician for five years .
Output
Thyristor
only one electron on the outermost shell of the atom
Higher voltage reading , but still constant
Sensitive to over-current
Measuring charging current
The multimeter is switched off .
The more free electrons a conductor has , the higher its conductivity .
The current measurement is now complete .
Two methods - two outcomes
While the protons have a positive charge , the neutrons are electrically neutral .
Now measure the voltage when the switch is closed .
The program is now showing you where you need to apply the test probes to measure voltage U1 .
ISOLATOR
How does the discharging occur , even though the battery has charged without fault ?
Electrical power ( 1 )
This table contains columns for both actual and nominal values .
The test on the rectifier diodes does not point to any kind of fault either .
if you are able to read circuit diagrams ,
This procedure is quick and efficient .
RELAY ( in normal position )
free electron
Neutrons - neutral charge
Stop .
What does a positive connection mean ?
Using a light-dependent resistor
Mike Rush does not actually want to know what the customer is complaining about .
Polarised capacitor ( electrolyte capacitor )
Three types of relay
Working steps taken by mechanic Smart :
Back
Enter beforehand any voltage that you are expecting for U1 , when the switch is open , or in the OFF position .
In this example the circuit consists of a battery , as the voltage source , a 100 ohm resistor and a light bulb , with an operating voltage of 12 volts and power of 3 watts .
Illustration of mixed current
Like charges repel one another .
Substances without free moving electrons are called non-conductors or insulators .
Practical example of a voltmeter
Sensitive to voltage surges
Reaper Custom Wheel
Fitting and removing a battery
Saltwater had penetrated into the cable cover which had caused the connector to corrode .
Parallel connection
SWITCH ( in normal position )
The customer tells him about his Mediterranean holiday , which he took with the motorcycle .
Multiples and fractions of units
RED … … … … … … … . . red
Resistance meter
Test your knowledge
Properties of magnetic materials
You haven ' t allocated anything correctly .
Electricity is scary for many - you can ' t see , smell or taste it - at least not directly . Also direct physical contact with it can be unpleasant , or fatal .
sounds on account of their state .
The arrow pointing in the direction of the current and the name U1 show you that in this case you need to measure the voltage of the battery , that is the operating voltage .
Here you can see the circuit diagram of an electrical circuit with a 12 volt battery as the voltage source , a switch and a light bulb .
As in the previous exercise , complete the voltage measurements at points U1 to U3 with the switch open and closed .
Hum-free means that LEDs does not make or intensify any disruptive
Prefixes
The atoms in copper and other metals , such as , aluminium , iron and gold , form bonds .
The result is anything but satisfactory .
You have failed to select a correct statement .
You will thus obtain the correct measuring result , when you apply the test probes in this section of the wire .
The fact that the sea salt has left signs of corrosion on the motorcycle , is still not sufficient to dampen his delight about the successful holiday .
You will see the first prompt on the display of the device .
After he has ruled out these causes of the fault , he looks for possible faults with the vehicle electrics by taking additional measurements .
Resistance and measuring resistance
Condenser
This circuit is different from the previous one only by the
And the current measurement confirms that there is a charging current flowing to the battery .
particularly good conductors of electricity
one tenth = x 0.1 ( 10-1 )
Your result from the final test
Facilitates high switching frequencies
Exercise :
Working out resistance values of a silicon diode
Close and open the switch by clicking your mouse .
If you are measuring a
The procedure is displayed step by step in the display .
Properties of the PNP transistor
Very high current can cause sparks to form , as in the case of engine ignition .
Instead of which he has fallen behind in his schedule .
After he has then failed , he is not able to proceed any further .
Induction
The switches changes between two contacts .
You have completed an incorrect measurement .
Parallel circuit of resistors ( 1 )
The electrons are negatively charged .
Lamp test
Ratio of primary voltage to secondary voltage ( 1 )
Transistor and inductive pick-up
ten times = x 10 ( 101 )
He does not have a method of isolating the source of the fault .
John Smart quickly connects thecharger to the battery in order to charge it over night .
In contrast , by taking some measurementsSmart first checks to see whether a vehicle component is faulty .
Properties of the diode
Destroying the measuring device
Now measure the voltage across the light bulb .
Click on " next " to start the program .
Now complete these individual working steps in the correct order .
He fitted an amplifier by himself .
Learning content :
It ' s always breaking down on these models , he thinks .
RG = ( R1 * R2 ) / ( R1 + R2 ) More than two resistors :
This means that they form a crystal lattice in which the electrons in the outermost shell are able to move relatively freely .
But only certain materials are electrically conductive .
Earth terminal
Measuring voltage using different types of circuit
Zinc-carbon battery
When you want to measure the resistance of a consuming device or of a component , you must always disconnect the object being measured from the electrical circuit .
This is the correct answer .
This voltage drops quickly leads him to uncover the cause of the fault .
Fault with the motorcycle
Your task now is to take voltage measurements on this circuit .
Procedure for measuring tasks in the program
Fault diagnosis and repair = 45 minutes
Digital multimeter
FUSE
Now take a look at an example of how things can work in practice .
This electrical circuit is referred to as a negative connection .
These are referred to as semiconductors .
Grid
Now copy the measurement reading by clicking on the multimeter display .
Battery and capacitor
Please check the connections and try again .
Failure to observe the temperature :
Measuring current
This once again clearly shows how the approach of the two differs and what this ultimately meant in terms of success and failure .
On the circuit diagram you always apply the test probes to the wire close to the component or the consuming device .
He has 20 years of professional experience and always approaches his work with great energy .
To be able to complete your measurement , switch the device on .
The
Ratio of number of windings to current
Zener diode
Fitting and removing the alternator
unlike charges
and the force of attraction , which opposes the centrifugal force .
Measuring resistance - what you need to know
Disconnect the light bulb from the wire by clicking above and below the wire .
You have applied the test probes correctly .
Photo transistor
Semiconductors
Unfortunately , you haven ' t paid attention to the polarity , which is why the measuring device is displaying a negative value .
Click here to see the
Switch , NC contact
Measuring across U1 is the same as measuring the battery voltage .
Now you have completed the measurement correctly .
Now measure voltage U2 and confirm by clicking on OK .
But you haven ' t yet selected all of the correct statements .
Actions other than those requested are not possible . A completed step is ticked off - then the next prompt appears .
electronic components
The circuit is broken after actuation .
The breakdown voltage is referred to as the Zener voltage .
and a forward direction .
This area is also referred to as the depletion layer of a diode .
To measure the current and voltage in each case a multimeter is connected into the electric circuit .
The thyristor is also referred to as a silicon controlled rectifier .
half the wave of the a . c . voltage to pass through .
The transistor blocks the load circuit and bulb E2 goes out .
By clicking on this button you open the Print dialog box .
Select the correct information and confirm by clicking on OK .
As soon as the generator voltage exceeds the permitted level , generally 14 volts for a 12 volt system , the Zener diode becomes conductive and there is a control pulse to the gate of the thyristor .
Connect the voltage source with the different connections on the transistor .
from developing .
Measure voltage U1 to U3 in the two circuits and enter the values into the table .
Calculating resistance
All entries in the table are wrong .
Here you can see an illustration of the different measurements of electrical values in the summary .
Discharging process of a vehicle battery .
You will
If the a . c . voltage is higher than 0.7 volts and has the correct polarity , the transistor switches .
Electrical voltage is generated by a deficit of electrons .
Now continue to increase the base voltage of the transistor using the voltage regulator , which takes on the role here of the potentiometer , until the light bulb starts to light up .
What result does a measuring voltage produce in this circuit , if the voltmeter is connected as illustrated .
Rotating a magnet in a coil induces d . c . voltage .
What must you do before every
Identify the type of circuit .
There is a surplus of electrons in the n-part of a diode .
current for the two resistors as the voltage increases .
Select the correct components and confirm by clicking on OK .
There is little
Bookmark :
Different types of induction
Close
If you put the measured values from the table into this formula , you will see that the value of the resistance used is in each case returned by dividing voltage by current intensity .
The lines drawn in in the coordinate system show the continuous increase in
Series circuit
Sitemap
In the final test the Continue button continues to be disabled until you press the OK button .
Your task now is to simulate the diode paths for the two types of transistor using the diode symbols .
Both paths , however , lead through the light bulb and in both cases the input to the light bulb is connected with the positive terminal .
hardly any difference between operating in d . c . voltage and in a . c . voltage .
The voltage required for this is referred to as the threshold voltage .
But you haven ' t yet made all of the correct allocations .
animation of the current trend with a . c . voltage illustrates why the diode ensures that only half the input voltage and input current is
Disconnecting the wires
As a result it is similar to a relay , with the advantage that the transistor does not have a solenoid coil and a switch contact that is prone to wear .
As you can see , increasing the voltage also resulted in an increase in the current intensity .
You inserted diode symbols correctly and incorrectly on your second attempt .
How is the thyristor different from the transistor .
The reed relay is ideally suited to switching high load currents .
If you are still unsure and would prefer to learn a bit more , you can exit the test by pressing the " back " button to work through the learning module again .
4.2 W
As you can see , the two half waves of the alternating current occur in the positive side .
to display the comparison of the relay with the transistor .
Which components belong to the semiconductors ?
The abbreviation of a Light Dependent Resistor is LDR .
Unlike the transistor , the load circuit continues to be completed .
During this process the size of the collector current depends on the base current .
The same consuming device and the same components in the circuit - with one small difference .
Electrical current is the flow of positively charged particles in a conductive material .
NPN transistor .
Sheet3
You will now complete current measurements on the positive wire , at I1 , Between the switch and the light bulb , marked as I2 and on the negative wire to the battery , at I3 .
Outwardly the crystal structure is actually electrically neutral .
This is called an
Depletion layer
a forward and a reverse direction .
You have selected one incorrect and one correct path .
It will provide you with an illustration of why there is
A green-illuminated LED is shown here , with an operating voltage of 2.7 volts and a current intensity of 20 milliamperes .
less electrons than silicon .
In the case of transistorized ignition an inductive pick-up controls the transistor .
Now work out the resistance values one after another for the current intensities that have been determined .
You have correctly inserted the diode symbols .
This means the collector-emitter-path only becomes conductive when the voltage between the base and the emitter is at least 0.7 volts .
connected to it .
The stop band is understood to mean the voltage range , which the diode blocks , when it is connected in its reverse direction , that is against the forward direction .
Go on to the next task by clicking NEXT .
On the basis of this characteristic the transistor is suitable for use as a controllable switch .
With this circuit
Ohm ' s Law :
Voltage
First click on the field in the table and then on the multimeter display to copy the measurement reading .
As you can see , the values have not changed .
If the LED is connected in a forward direction , it emits light .
Diodes
" click on
Start by measuring the base current .
Rotating a magnet in a coil induces a . c . voltage .
0.7 volts
Now measure the resistances and enter what in your opinion is the most appropriate measuring range into the table .
Continue to operate the regulator until the light bulb lights up and then enter the measurement reading into the table .
Frequently used materials for semiconductor diodes :
You now have the opportunity to measure four resistances and to work out which is the best measuring range for the respective resistance .
This function allows you to subsequently find individual pages quickly .
Allocate the correct formula to the electrical values and confirm by clicking on OK .
First of all observe the light bulb and check which voltage drops at the bulb , when you slowly increase the voltage to 12 volts using the voltage regulator .
This is due to the fact that a different measuring voltage is applied to the diode in each measuring range .
here
The electrolyte level needs to be checked once a year even with maintenance-free batteries .
Select the correct components and confirm your selection by clicking on the OK button .
Which components are semiconductors .
Double-way rectification generates pulsating direct current .
How does this resistor work in the circuit when unilluminated and when illuminated .
The name is an abbreviated form of the transient resistor , which represents the transistor as a resistor that can be controlled by current .
activate the switch in the circuits one after the other and observe what happens .
Preferred date in calendar week
Now
Using light-dependant resistors
Which statements relating to the Zener diode are correct ?
Think about it :
To print the screen , please reset the paper format in the printer dialog box to landscape .
You can find out additional Information by clicking on the highlighted term .
Enable / disable audio
For your assistance , you can reveal a collection of formulae
Here you can see the graphical symbol for another semiconductor component .
What does the size of the induction voltage depend on ?
How the diode works when operated with a . c . voltage
To do this you rearrange the formula in this way :
Select the correct value and confirm by clicking on OK .
Hence it follows that :
Select the correct components and confirm your selection by clicking on the OK button .
and answer the question about the level of voltage V and the type of circuit .
Which statements are correct .
Have you connected the transistor with the voltage source and checked all permeations ?
Select the correct paths and confirm by clicking on OK .
Dear Madam / Sir :
Assign in each case the correct Japanese graphical symbol to the DIN graphical symbols .
You have done it .
when used in alternating current is referred to as rectification .
The diode prevents the negative half wave of the a . c . voltage
The n-part is connected
When you have completed the table in full , please confirm by clicking on OK .
To select a different table field , just click on it with your mouse .
Sheet2
Depending on the polarity the paths B-E and B-C of the PNP transistor in one instance conduct the current , and in the other are blocked .
In the case of the single-way rectification only small voltage and current losses occur .
Please confirm you have done this by clicking on OK .
of the operating voltage across the diode .
the collector
Its operating voltage is 1.6 volts at a current intensity of 20 milliamperes .
The circuit causes the addition of the positive and negative half wave into a rectified , waved voltage .
Each part of the transistor has its own connection .
Batteries that have been removed need to be re-charged because of self-discharge .
The two tables once again show you by way of comparison that for both types of transistor the paths B-C and B-E behave like diodes .
Rearranging the equation , Ohm ' s Law :
Which statements relating to the Zener diode are correct ?
After the positive a . c . voltage pulse the thyristor continues to be switched until the direct current in the load circuit falls below about 20 mA and / or is broken .
Which current intensities can be expected for measuring points I1 to I3 ?
The connections have the names E for emitter , C for collector and B for base .
Before you start the test , please note :
The base voltage of the transistor falls below 0.7 volts as a consequence .
for the practical section !
As you were able to determine , the resistance when light is only one fifth of the resistance when dark .
Now measure the current at I2 and confirm by clicking on OK .
Drag the applicable terms under the respective graphic .
Because the diode is connected in its forward direction , the bulb voltage only increases to the level of the threshold voltage of the diode , which is in the region of 0.7 volts .
You could also say that the diode intersects the negative half wave of the a . c . voltage . The result of this is that only half of the a . c . voltage or of the alternating current is applied to the light bulb .
Using this table you can compare the completed measurement readings again .
This circuit is the same as the last one , but a thyristor is incorporated instead of the transistor .
Quasi-free electrons in the n-part occupy the holes in the p-part .
to the negative terminal , the p-part
Now measure the current on the battery ' s negative wire .
Here are three types of relay .
Which circuit corresponds to the Graetz bridge circuit ?
Operating the voltage regulator has no effect on the base voltage , as the electric circuit is not yet completed .
Look at the circuit carefully
Select the correct components and confirm by clicking on OK .
Of course this is in no way a constant direct current .
Unlike the transistor the light does not flicker , because with the thyristor a single positive voltage pulse of 0.7 volts is enough to connect it .
the bulb voltage remains almost constant and does not exceed 6.2 volts .
Your personal learning success is determined in this final test .
The secondary current is twice as large as the primary current
When the polarity of the base is positive the diode paths are conductive on the NPN transistor , and in the case of the PNP transistor when the polarity is negative .
The holes or lattice vacancies in the p-part of the diode behave like positively charged particles .
Letter A stands for anode and refers here to the p-part of the diode , whereas the n-part is designated with a K for cathode .
We call this reverse direction of the diode .
Now measure the resistance of this LDR in a dark environment and again when bright .
In circuit B the diode is incorporated so that no current flows .
Unlike the diode , the transistor consists of three differently doped parts .
Click on the link to watch the animation again .
If the polarity now changes and the current flows in the reverse direction , the diode blocks it and the light bulb goes out .
As like forces repel , this process is cancelled out .
You can increase the voltage using the voltage regulator .
You found in the previous exercise that it depends on which transistor path the voltage is applied to and what the polarity is of the applied voltage , as to whether a current flows .
full wave
How large should the series resistor be so that this bulb can be operated with a voltage source of 24 volts .
that the silicon diode shows signs of higher current intensities at a much lower voltage .
C - E
Which statements about types of induction are correct ?
Prepare the electric circuit so that the measuring device can be connected in series .
Once again use the voltage regulator and observe the measuring results for the different input voltages .
With this type of rectification alternating current can be converted into a pulsating direct current .
Start with U1 in circuit A .
Silicon crystal doped with indium ( p-type )
Drag the diode symbols into the gaps in the two graphics and confirm your allocation by clicking on OK .
Click
Even after the voltage needed to connect the thyristor has dropped to zero , the switching state of the thyristor does not change .
This correlation is also
Now measure voltages U1 to U3 in the two circuits , when the switch is closed , and copy the measurement readings into the table .
Click on the multimeter display to copy the measurement reading .
Another type of diode , which is used in vehicle electrics , is the LED .
Complete the " Light bulb illuminated ? " table column
Electrical current is the directed movement of free electrons in a conductor material .
You have already been taught about this positive connection .
When you look at the table
Here you can see the table specifying the correct measurement readings for comparison .
How high are the voltage and the current in the secondary coil of the transformer ?
B - C
Until the threshold voltage is reached , no current flows , as the diode is not yet conductive .
Which statements relating to the Zener diode are correct .
click on the " back " button . To complete the test :
By clicking on the Bookmark icon the program remembers the page that you are currently on .
Information about inductive pickups and the battery-coil ignition can be found in the
When the threshold voltage has been reached , the resistance of the diode drops to a lower value and remains at a constant low reading .
Current intensity is calculated by dividing the value of voltage by that of resistance .
You have worked out the correct resistance values .
Calculate again and make your selection again .
Date :
The outer parts in each case have a connection , which as in the case of the diode are referred to as anode and cathode .
Here you can see two circuits , each of which has a diode connected between the switch and the light bulb .
Start test
For a
Calculate how large the total current is in this parallel circuit .
ECU is the abbreviation for Electronic Control Unit .
The secondary voltage is half as large as the primary voltage .
You have selected the correct statement .
circuit is completed .
as with normal diodes , they have
Comparing the characteristic curves highlights this difference in the two diodes .
Which factors does the size of this induction voltage depend on ?
Look at the solution .
Select the correct statement and confirm by clicking on OK .
The diode has in the process become a conductor of electricity .
As soon as you click on NEXT , the
HoViS membership No . :
Whether the depletion layer of the diode gets bigger or so small that a flow of electrons occurs depends on the polarity of the applied voltage .
Bulb E2 does not light up , when switch S2 is closed .
light-emitting diode
You have not yet entered all of your observations into the table .
Rv = ( 12 Volt / 0.02 A ) - ( 2.7 Volt / 0.02 A ) = 600 - 135 = 465 Ω .
What electrical power does the bulb produce ?
Together with the Zener diode the thyristor can make a simple control unit for an alternator .
Again the crystal structure is outwardly electrically neutral .
has a light bulb
As soon as you click on NEXT , the animation will start .
You can find information about types of voltage and current in the
As a result the exchange of charge carriers is halted , because the electrons from the n-layer now have to confront the negatively charged p-layer in this zone .
Another piece of information about the final test .
All entries are wrong .
Z diode and thyristor form the alternator ' s control unit
Switch OFF :
A voltmeter is connected to this circuit in parallel .
The transistor blocks the current , which is why the load circuit remains open .
The two diodes are used for rectifying the alternating current generated by the alternator - D1 for the battery and D2 for the regulator .
As you can see , the values have only changed slightly .
How large is voltage V here when the switch is open and closed ?
Select the correct statements and confirm your selection by clicking on the OK button .
This is due to the fact that the NPN transistor is only conductive when the polarity of the base voltage is positive .
Current ?
That is not completely correct .
A special diode
Calculating electrical values and electrical power
In the series circuit the total current is as large as the individual currents .
Select the correct statements and confirm by clicking on OK .
The current trend in its forward direction is represented as a positive half wave .
In the site map you will see the detailed menu depicting a symbol to show you which sections you have not yet worked through , have worked through in part or in full .
reverse polarity the positive terminal of the current source drains a number of electrons from the n-layer and at the same time the negative terminal forces a number of electrons into the p-layer .
Out of # # # MAX_QUESTIONS # # # questions you have answered # # # CORRECT_QUESTIONS # # # correctly .
The diode is a semiconductor component .
Design of the thyristor
Because it works without any mechanical operation , the transistor supports a faster switching sequence than the relay .
Select the applicable paths and confirm by clicking on OK .
Depending on the polarity the paths B-E and B-C in one instance conduct current , and in another are blocked .
For the text version the spoken text is displayed in a window , which can be moved around on the screen .
On your second attempt you allocated some but not all of the diode symbols correctly .
applied
behave like the two transistors .
Your entries are not completely correct .
The table shows the two measuring results compared alongside one another .
Let ' s get started on measuring resistance .
Repeat
WHEELS
Please work through the remaining content .
You can identify the forward direction of the diode by the arrow included in its graphical symbol .
a constant change in polarity .
In the silicon diode ' s pass band , small increases in voltage result in a sharp increase in current .
to repeat the animation on reducing the depletion layer and click
Result of the final test :
LEDs in their forward directiondifferent colour
Select the correct statements and then confirm by clicking on OK .
Negative connection
How voltage and current behave in relation to one another
Now measure the resistance when dark and when light in turn .
Please confirm by clicking on OK .
Z diode with a Zener voltage of 6.2 volts
Now observe how the thyristor is different from the transistor .
Now check the bulb voltage and current .
How do voltage and current behave in relation to one another when operating the circuit with alternating current ?
Transistors also belong to the semiconductor family .
In circuit B , in which the diode is blocking the current , you will see
At this moment the light-dependant resistor is not illuminated and has the dark resistance of 1 kilo-ohm .
halving of the current and voltage does not occur , as in the case of the half-wave rectification .
Search :
The battery always needs to be removed for charging because of the risk of oxyhydrogen detonating gas .
Compare them with your suggestions for the set-up of the resistance measuring ranges .
You won ' t measure current I3 in this way .
As a result of the increased rotational speed , the induced voltage increases to a point where the transistor
As a result there is less of a voltage drop across the photoresistor and more voltage across the 10 kilo-ohm resistor .
this type of
Your measuring result shows that the collector current is significantly higher than the base current .
In this circuit four diodes are fitted upwards of the light bulb .
You have entered all resistance values into the table .
Bulb E2 does not light up , when switch S1 and switch S2 are closed .
If a voltage is applied , which is too high for the diode , the blocking effect is overwhelmed resulting in the breakdown of the diode .
Incorrect !
Select the correct answers and confirm by clicking on OK .
You have already been introduced to these graphical representations .
Excellent .
The object being measured must be disconnected from the circuit .
E = emitterC = collectorB = base
Z diode
Confirm when you have finished your preparations by clicking on OK .
Open the electric circuit .
Check this by completing the electric circuit again .
Now look at how the fotoresistencia in conjunction with the transistor controls the behaviour of light bulb E2 .
Bookmark :
Please complete all allocations , before you confirm by clicking on OK .
that from an input voltage of 9 volts and
Now insert the diode symbols into the two graphics so that they simulate the diode paths of the respective transistor .
Now close the switch by clicking it with your mouse .
After you have calculated the series resistance , select the correct value and confirm by clicking on OK .
All measurement readings have been correctly entered in the table .
And which type of circuit is it here ?
The arrangement of the diodes with double-way rectification is also referred to as a Graetz bridge circuit .
Drag the Japanese graphical symbol into the field below the respective DIN symbol .
Which statements about types of induced voltage are correct ?
Like every diode the thyristor has a reverse
Specify which paths of the PNP transistor exhibit the characteristic of a diode .
The resistor has a value of 100 ohms .
Your task now is to check which connections of a transistor current can flow and which current direction is possible .
So that the trainer can cater for your learning requirements in a targeted way in the practical training , he needs your test results .
U = R * I
In its pure form silicon is an insulator , as there are no free electrons available in its crystal structure .
Ω * 0.02 A
Even in the case of the PNP transistor it is the paths B-E and B-C , which exhibit the characteristic of a diode .
low energy consumption , low heat build-up , maintenance-free , unlimited service life , impact-proof and vibration-proof ,
Now firstly close the switch by clicking on it .
Cathode
Z diodes are operated in their reverse direction as overvoltage protectors .
as at its highest is only 0.8 volts .
Which relay bears which name ?
The a . c . voltage is characterised by
It is also clear
The arrangement of the four diodes is called a Graetz bridge circuit .
Now measure the current at I1 and confirm by clicking on OK .
As a result the depletion layer of the diode gets bigger .
Select the correct circuit and confirm by clicking on OK .
In the parallel circuit the sum of the partial voltages is as large as the total voltage .
Congratulations on this good result !
Intensity of the magnetic field
NTCs are resistors , in which the flow of current decreases , the higher the temperature is .
Help :
electrically neutral arsenic atoms emit electrons , and / or the indium atoms absorb some and as a result turn into ions , i . e . into charge carriers .
After each measurement enter the current intensity
When the polarity of the base is negative the diode paths are conductive on the NPN transistor , and in the case of the PNP transistor when the polarity is positive .
Correct your selection and confirm by clicking on OK .
In circuit A the diode is connected so that it allows the current through .
Measuring voltage , Measuring on the circuit diagram
When in
Here you
clear from the diagram of current intensity in relation to voltage .
Also calculate the size of the series resistor .
Now look at how the photoresistor in conjunction with the transistor controls the behaviour of light bulb E2 .
Different circuits - different outcomes :
The holes behave in a similar way to positively charged particles .
You won ' t measure current I2 in this way .
The arrangement of the four diodes results in the alternating current in each case taking a different path depending on the polarity .
If , for example , arsenic , which has five electrons on its outermost shell , is introduced into the silicon crystal , this fifth quasi-free electron is available as a charge carrier , as it is not needed to hold together the crystal structure .
for measuring voltage .
positive or p-doping .
Determining current intensities and resistance values of a silicon diode
Changeover relay
Correct your entry and confirm by clicking on OK .
The Z diode has its breakdown voltage at 0.7 volts .
The secondary current is as large as the secondary voltage .
Depending on the polarity in one instance current flows along paths B-E and B-C , and in the other are blocked .
As a result you have worked out and entered the correct base voltage .
Then click on the multimeter display and the set measuring range is copied to the table .
the voltage
At a voltage of 0.5 volts the thyristor is not conductive and blocks the load circuit .
Unfortunately , your results are incorrect .
What is the difference between the behaviour of the two types of transistor ?
NPN - transistor
Above a certain current intensity the LED is destroyed due to the temperature that is generated .
can continue to operate uncontrolled in the event of a fault in the earth wire .
S2 closed = LDR dark = Base-emitter-voltage
Allocate the correct formula to the three values in your calculation .
As in the case of the transistor the induced a . c . voltage at the time has no effect on the load circuit .
Based upon measurements that you complete , you will be introduced to the correlation between the electrical values , voltage , current and resistance and find out how your correlation is expressed in calculation formulae .
Unlike circuit A .
Please send by fax to Honda Training Centre 069-83097-979 !
This graphic shows an NPN transistor , to the base of which a light bulb is connected .
Now have a look at this comparison by retrieving the document .
resistance measurement
You have not yet increased the base voltage sufficiently to illuminate the light bulb .
PTCs are PTC thermistors , because the flow of current increases as the temperature rises .
Please insert everything before you confirm by clicking on OK .
Unlike half-wave rectification with a single diode the
The atoms ionised by this process in the two layers electrically charge the crystal zones in opposition to one another .
Special characteristics
contact breaker in the battery-coil ignition , which controls the primary circuit , an inductive pick-up or a Hall-effect pulse generator provides the voltage pulse for the transistor , which switches the primary circuit .
LEDs are now available in many colours , from green , red , blue all the way to white light .
Below these you can see the corresponding Japanese graphical symbols , which are in fact not allocated correctly .
The secondary voltage is twice as large as the primary voltage .
If you would like to complete the test , then please click on " Start test " .
A small current even flows at 0.1 volts .
You could say that in its reverse direction the Z diode works similarly to an overflow device , for example , the overflow on a reservoir , which in the event of a sudden rise in the water level prevents the lake from bursting its banks .
The green area designates the depletion layer .
an ECU .
By pressing this button you exit the Honda learning program .
Correct your allocation and confirm by clicking on OK .
You can see the illustration for measurements of voltage , current and resistance .
connected in its forward direction .
The capacity indicates how much charge a capacitor can store .
In the case of a diode silicon crystals are combined with n-doping and p-doping .
Use of photoresistors : LuxmeterDimmer switchLight barrier sensor
Before you once again analyse the results of the current measurement more precisely , calculate now the resistance of the diode for the different voltage values , starting with 0.5 volts .
Signature ( Training Manager ) :
Before you apply the test probes , you must disconnect the wire in the correct place in order to connect the measuring device in series in the electric circuit .
bulb is supplied with voltage in both phases of the alternating current .
During the phase in which the alternating current flows in a forward direction , it passes through the diode and the light bulb is illuminated .
Select the correct statements and confirm by clicking on OK .
Thus by measuring the current intensity and the voltage across a resistor , you can calculate its resistance value .
These lines are referred to as characteristic resistance curves .
Measuring resistance , Special features , Working steps
Now increase the voltage using the voltage regulator up to the maximum value of 12 volts .
R is equal to U divided by I .
During this phase the current intensity is zero .
This graphic provides you with an illustration of a red-illuminated LED connected after a series resistor , RV .
Use the voltage regulator to adjust the voltage at the diode .
The results of your final test is stored on your elPass .
Measure the resistance of the diode in all measuring ranges .
You will now learn how this diode works .
And what type of circuit is it ?
becomes conductive
difference
Please always bring it with you to the practical training .
PNP transistor is illustrated ,
The light was already lighting up at 0.7 volts .
Circuit of resistors :
The voltage drop would be several volts for germanium diodes at high currents .
It is a light-dependant resistor , also called a photoresistor .
The test only shows you in which areas you have sufficient knowledge , and / or what you need to repeat again .
The values are copied to the table again .
Close the switch and observe how
This voltage is also referred to as breakdown voltage .
Using the formulae in Ohm ' s Law , if you know two electrical values , you can calculate the third .
Which statements relating to NTC and PTC resistors are correct ?
This rapid increase is clearly visible in the diagram of the current curve .
Complete your measuring range suggestions .
Current follows voltage
In the case of the smallest measuring range of 200 ohms the measuring voltage lies below the threshold voltage , which is why the resistance has turned out to be infinite in the
learn more about the threshold voltage and the diode on the next page .
Switch ON :
How the different values are measured
Only one of the inner parts has a connection , comparable with the transistor base .
If the n-doped part of the diode is connected with the negative terminal and the p-doped part with the positive terminal , the depletion layer is overwhelmed . The diode is forward biased .
Good , you have successfully finished measuring current .
This correlation of voltage , current and resistance is described by Ohm ' s Law .
Print page
Series resistor as a safeguard is necessary
How does light bulb E2 behave depending on the switch position of S1 and S2 ?
p-part
Different circuits - different outcomes :
The measuring range must be set in the upper third of the scale .
After each measurement enter the measurement reading into the table as usual .
How large are the voltage and current on the secondary coil , if voltage is applied to the transformer .
That is wrong again .
To make the material conductive , the silicon crystal , which has four electrons , is mixed with other substances , which have more or
Here you can see four circuits incorporating diodes .
After that , it remains connected irrespective of the change in polarity of the control voltage .
The formula for Ohm ' s Law is :
As you can see the light bulb flickers , as the current is not constant .
As you can see , you have measured different resistance values for each measuring range in the forward direction .
Here you can see the correct solution .
By entering a keyword you can search for a specific term using this function .
Properties of the capacitor
Which current values can be expected ?
The values in the table are not correct .
go to
As a result there is less of a voltage drop across the fotoresistencia and more voltage across the 10 kilo-ohm resistor .
They are maintenance-free and have a virtually unlimited service life .
Which statements about the diode are correct ?
Unlike the silicon diode the threshold voltage in the
Initial assessment
How large is the total current ?
You have not yet entered the value determined for the base voltage into the table .
At a voltage of 0.7 volts the thyristor interconnects .
To exit the test :
As with all diodes the forward current increases as the voltage increases slowly at first and then increasingly quickly .
The secondary voltage is as large as the primary voltage .
Upon attaining the threshold voltage in cut-off mode the Z diode becomes conductive .
This range up to 0.5 volts in which absolutely no current flows is not , however , to be confused with the diode ' s stop band .
2 V = 100
Enter into the table accordingly what behaviour the light bulb exhibits for the various connection options .
Applying voltage to a coil induces a countervoltage .
Properties of the vehicle battery
add
Page [ current ] of [ TOTAL ]
Test to see how the NPN transistor behaves in this circuit , in which a light bulb is connected to its collector .
If the p-doped part of the diode is connected with the negative terminal and the n-doped part with the positive terminal , the depletion layer gets bigger . The diode is reverse-biased .
However , the increase in current generally takes place more slowly .
You have not started the test or have not answered all test questions .
Calculate the size of the series resistor , which is
The negative terminal is connected with the consuming device via the switch .
The secondary current is half as large as the primary current .
The measured current intensities are then copied to a table .
Dealer number :
Now measure the current at point IB and IC in succession .
Close the switch to start the measurements .
How large is the voltage when the switch is open and closed .
Print :
In the case of digital measuring instruments a zero-point correction must always be completed .
This function of the diode
to the light bulb .
How the four diodes work when operated with a . c . voltage
Double-way rectification
Voltage and current :
The circuit , which you have already been introduced to , has been extended here by an ECU , an electronic control unit .
There is no pass or fail .
by measuring resistance in the diode ' s reverse direction .
a diagram of a diode , consisting of an n-part and a p-part .
In spite of there being the same input voltage , the bulb voltage and bulb current have fallen to about half in the case of a . c . voltage . What is the explanation for this ?
Rotating the magnet induces an a . c . voltage .
Which statements about the behaviour of light bulb E2 are correct ?
Now measure the resistance of the diode - once in its reverse direction and once in its forward direction .
Make sure also that the polarity of the test probes is correct .
Lattice vacancy , hole
The voltage range , in which the diode is conductive , is referred to as its pass band .
register Mr . / Ms .
At least one of your entries in the table is incorrect .
The English term for light emitting diode is LED .
in the wire .
above
As you can see , the voltage at the bulb is far too low even at the highest input voltage to lite it ,
Check your entries and correct the incorrect ones .
All of your entries are still incorrect .
The reason for this lies in the different way in which the diode is incorporated into the circuit .
It inhibits the operating current .
Break-contact relay
Possibly you have also forgotten to complete the electric circuit with the switch .
Length of the electric conductor .
Check your entries and correct the incorrect entries in the table .
The terms designate parts of these graphic representations .
You won ' t measure current I1 in this way .
to the previous circuit on first examination .
Now look at how the photoresistor in conjunction with the transistor controls the behaviour of light bulb E2 .
Using the site map you can jump to specific topics .
To do this first select the table field , to which you would like to copy the measuring range .
Anode
Bulb E2 lights up , when switch S1 and switch S2 are closed .
Silicon is usually used for its construction .
You inserted everything correctly on your second attempt .
Calculate the correct series resistor for this LED .
Now analyse what happens , when the Z diode is operated in its reverse direction .
You are measuring the current in this circuit at points I1 to I3 .
PNP transistor is shown here ,
What you will learn in this chapter
For resistance measurements the resistors must be disconnected from the electric circuit .
The positive terminal of the current source drains electrons from the depletion layer , the negative terminal forces electrons into the n-part and then into the depletion layer of the diode .
The multimeter has already been
Current intensity
Light bulb
In addition , you will be introduced to the laws in a series circuit , a parallel circuit and in mixed circuits of resistors , and find out how you can determine the electrical values in these circuits .
Sound on / off :
Operating current = 20 mA
In the series circuit the total voltage is applied at each consuming device .
Charging process of a vehicle battery .
As a result the anode-cathode electric circuit of the thyristor is completed and the excess current is diverted to earth .
The regulator itself , which has the task of keeping the charging voltage and charging current constant , is made up of a Zener diode and a thyristor , in which the thyristor is controlled via the Zener diode .
You have filled in the table correctly .
the voltage across the light bulb drops and how high the light bulb current intensity is .
With thyristors ,
Now close and open the switch by clicking your mouse .
Please confirm your results by clicking on OK .
Select the correct resistance value and confirm by clicking on OK .
You have entered your measuring range suggestions in full .
What is the procedure here ?
Assign the terms to the respective diagram .
The secondary voltage is as large as the primary voltage .
Use of photoresistors : LuxmeterDimmer switchLight barrier sensor
Which formula do you use to calculate what the electrical value is .
As with the silicon diode , whose threshold voltage is at 0.7 volts , the transistor switch interconnects at a base voltage of 0.7 volts .
And which type of circuit is it ?
B - E
Your measurement readings show that , although the diode is connected in a forward direction , a very low current only starts to flow from 0.5 volts .
The operating voltage is generally no higher than five volts and usually LEDs are operated at a current of 20 milliamperes .
There is no voltage across the light bulb as it has no connection with the positive terminal of the voltage source due to the blocking effect of the diode .
Use of fotoresistencias : LuxmeterDimmer switchLight barrier sensor
S2 closed and S1 closed = LDR light = Base-emitter-voltage
However , these two types are different from one another .
How great is the total resistance in this circuit ?
Allocate the correct name for the relay , by dragging the name on to the field below the respective relay illustration .
In this circuit the light-dependant resistor , which you had previously measured , is connected in the basic circuit of an NPN transistor .
It is a light-dependant resistor , also called a fotoresistencia .
First of all make the necessary settings on the multimeter and apply the test probes to the wire .
Which statements about the capacitor are applicable ?
The transistor interconnects .
The secondary voltage is half as large as the primary voltage .
When , however , the current flows against the direction of the diode ' s arrow , as in circuit B , the diode blocks the flow of current .
Equalisation of the lattice vacancies takes place in the p-part with quasi-free electrons , and in the n-part at the contact area of n-part and p-part of the diode .
Silicon crystal doped with arsenic ( n-type )
Everything is muddled up here .
Disconnect the wires !
Measuring resistance !
The secondary current is half as large as the primary current .
Half-wave rectification
Transistor made up of transient resistor ( Engl . )
Use the red test probe as the positive terminal , and the black test probe as the negative terminal .
Voltage and current intensity are nearly as large for a . c . voltage as they are for d . c . voltage .
Calculate the electrical power of the light bulb according to the information on the circuit diagram .
Here in the case of the silicon diode this is in the region of 0.7 volts .
To do this , click on the voltage regulator arrow buttons .
In the parallel circuit the total current is the sum of the individual currents .
As soon as the thyristor is connected , it remains connected , even if the control voltage subsequently falls below its threshold voltage .
Design and use of the transistor
If however indium is introduced , which only has three electrons on its outermost shell , impurities ( lattice vacancies ) , so-called holes , appear in the crystal .
But you haven ' t selected all of the applicable paths .
In this circuit diagram a diode is
The threshold voltage is the voltage , at which the diode breaks down and is destroyed .
Now measure current intensity I1 .
It becomes conductive and as a result the load circuit is completed , which you can see from the bulb lighting up .
Pure silicon crystal
How high will the current at I1 be when the switch is open ?
What is current and the voltage
Even in the case of the larger resistor it was demonstrated that doubling the voltage resulted in a doubling in the current intensity and quadrupling
12 volts d . c . is applied to the circuit .
You have inserted the diode symbols correctly , and incorrectly .
Thyristor graphical symbol
Here you can see the table specifying the correct measuring ranges .
The voltage in each case applied to the bulb is listed in the table .
Ratio , Current , Voltage
The selected table field is marked with the blue arrow .
A load circuit can be controlled with the thyristor .
The size of its resistance and thus the conductivity of this semiconductor depends on how much light falls on it .
NTC means a resistor , whose resistance increases as the temperature increases .
Now close the switch by clicking on it .
The text window can also be minimised using the Minimise icon .
Please select the correct term and confirm by clicking on OK .
Voltage ?
Round your results off to two decimal places .
When charging the capacitor the electrons do not migrate from one plate of the capacitor to the other .
Select the correct answers and confirm by clicking on OK .
What does the size of the induction voltage depend on ?
a voltage reading of 12 volts as a result
As soon as switch S2 is closed , the light bulb is connected with the voltage source .
Your entries are now correct .
Here you can see a circuit with a transformer , which has 500 windings on its primary coil and 1000 windings on its secondary coil .
NTCs are thermally senstive resistors , because their resistance decreases as the temperature increases .
Do not display this dialog box again
Then copy the voltage reading displayed on the multimeter into the table .
Allocate the terms to the representations .
Which paths of this NPN transistor behave like a diode ?
This breakdown voltage is also called the Zener voltage .
If the measuring device has a diode measuring range , it is not the resistance that is therefore displayed , but the voltage drop at the diode .
outside the circuit
Parallel circuit
Calculate the size of the series resistor , which is needed to operate the LED correctly .
Now a 100 ohm resistor is replaced by a 200 ohm resistor .
As a first step determine at which voltage the collector-emitter-path becomes conductive .
Rv = ( 12 Volt / 0.02 A ) - ( 1.2 Volt / 0.02 A ) = 600 - 80 = 520 Ω .
Check the bulb current and bulb voltage again by completing the electric circuit again .
forward direction .
Measuring voltage :
Comparing the relay with the transistor
Instead of the
For this reason the bulb voltage continues to be limited to this voltage reading .
If the a . c . voltage is higher than 0.7 volts the thyristor switches .
You have made all of the correct allocations , as well as some incorrect ones .
You have not yet entered the behaviour for all connection options into the table .
These are also referred to as defect electrons .
The fact that this is not the case lies in a special feature of the Z diode .
Please check the settings again , think about this :
do not implode
Will it be 0 amps or will the current intensity be greater than 0 ?
You will be given more explanations of this later , when we examine the thyristor .
voltage of 0.7 volts is applied across the diode , as the diode has a
Transistorized ignition works according to this principle .
Enter the values as usual into the table fields and , when you have finished , confirm by clicking on OK .
It has , however , been extended by one component :
This shows that these two transistor paths have the characteristic of a diode .
how the flow of current would be represented
You have selected the correct resistance value .
Please select the correct solution and confirm by clicking on OK .
Actuate the voltage regulator to set the voltage values one after another and to enter the values that have been determined for the current intensity into the table .
Types of circuit , ECU
LED = light-emitting diode , German :
As the current intensity in the diode also changes as the voltage varies , this also results in different resistance values .
Now apply voltage to paths B-C and B-E according to the table and enter your observations .
At least one of your entries is still incorrect .
Of course , no current can be measured while the electric circuit is not completed by the switch .
The induction voltage created when switching off is significantly lower than the operating voltage previously applied .
Select the correct value and confirm by clicking on OK .
produce a small amount of heat .
Click on the " Application for practical training " link and print out your application form with your test results .
We refer to this circuit as single-wave or half-wave rectification , as the diode only allows
A light bulb is incorporated into this circuit , which is designed for a voltage of 6 volts given power of 2.4 watts .
circuit on the left , and on the right an illustration or
From them it is possible to read how high the current intensity is for a particular voltage for the respective resistor - and vice-versa .
LED stands for light-emitting diode .
This process is called doping .
What do you always need to be aware of when measuring resistance ?
They show the diode symbol and a diode ' s design .
Allocate the name to the different types of relay .
Due to the division of voltage across the 10 kilo-ohm resistor and that of the LDR , the voltage applied to the base of the transistor is higher than 0.7 volts .
This connection is called the gate .
The arsenic atoms in the n-layer have emitted electrons , and are now therefore positively charged , whereas the indium atoms in the p-layer have absorbed electrons and are therefore negatively charged .
Put another way :
For the practical training in the Honda Training Centre you need your final test result .
to repeat the animation on reducing the depletion layer .
The Z diode protects the light bulb from a voltage surge .
Warning :
With single-way rectification only a half wave of the alternating current passes through the diode .
Allocate the correct name to the three relays .
Which statements about characteristics of the capacitor are correct ?
From 0.7 volts it then increases abruptly .
The induction voltage is momentarily too low to switch the transistor .
Here are the individual parts added on to one another in the order positive-negative-positive , which is why this transistor is referred to as a PNP transistor .
Which type of rectification produces this current trend ?
For current measurements the measuring device must be connected in series .
Test how this transistor behaves .
Four diodes - two paths
I1 = 0.05 A / I2 = 0.05 A / I3 = 0.05 A
Z diode and thyristor in the alternator ' s control unit
Operate the voltage regulator until the light is illuminated and copy the voltage reading displayed for this as usual into the table .
current will
Start
Now measure the current between the switch and the light bulb .
Speed of movement of the conductor and the magnetic field
The test result will enable your practical trainer in the training centre to support you according to your requirements . The test will highlight the state of your knowledge and / or any existing gaps in your knowledge .
You have not selected the correct term .
on an oscilloscope .
The number located on the Zener diode , indicates the Zener voltage , at which the diode is conductive in cut-off mode .
remove
You have successfully completed all of the measurements .
Enter your result to two decimal places and round it to two decimal places .
How large is voltage V when the switch is open and closed ?
There is now an a . c . voltage in the circuit of 12 volts .
Make-contact relay
When connecting to the battery , first connect to the positive terminal , and then the negative terminal .
As you can see from the readings that are displayed , the bulb voltage is 11.2 volts at a current intensity of 0.24 amps .
This is
Which type of rectification causes this current trend ?
First prepare the multimeter for the measurements and apply the test probes to the wire .
The self-induction voltage occurring when switching on is responsible for a gradual increase in the current emitted from the voltage source .
The blocking effect of the diode results in current only flowing in one direction as with direct current ;
During the process , however , the following takes place :
A thyristor is an electronic switch , which is similar to a transistor .
Which statements about working with vehicle batteries are correct ?
Exit :
Bulb E2 lights up , when switch S2 is closed .
What needs to be carefully observed when working with vehicle batteries
rectification .
To do this close the switch .
It is destroyed in the process .
Because the diode is being operated in its reverse direction , you might have expected the bulb voltage to constantly increase up to the maximum input voltage .
, or alternatively in calendar week
Operating LEDs
Here a
You will find out about how LEDs operate based on an example and
The Z diode is not only an excellent overvoltage protector in electric circuits , it is also used in regulators in battery charging systems thanks to its special property .
This circuit is similar to ones that the you have already been introduced to .
Now calculate the total current and select the correct value for the current intensity .
You have not selected the correct resistance value .
The contact area of n-part and p-part of a diode are called the transmission layer .
This is called
In this instance you can also observe how voltage and current behave in relation to one another .
Based on this characteristic it is also referred to as a silicon controlled rectifier .
Measure the resistance for all measuring ranges and enter the measurement readings as usual into the table .
Now gradually increase the voltage to determine what the measurement readings are .
Based on the information about the light bulb , calculate its electrical power .
With this
This type of rectification is referred to as
on the transistor a larger collector current can be controlled .
used to control the base voltage of the transistor .
The applied voltage has the effect of blocking the flow of electrons .
germanium diode is lower .
two of which are positively and two negatively doped .
chapter .
Here you can see a simple electrical circuit with a resistor
But you have not yet allocated all of the diode symbols correctly .
Silicon
The thyristor consists of four parts ,
Please start the test by clicking on " Start test " . Please close this window by pressing " Close "
a . c . voltage is now applied to the circuit .
Different circuits - different outcomes
When you have found the appropriate measuring range , copy it to the table .
Movement between a magnetic field and an electric conductor induces a voltage .
The current intensity continues to vary greatly , which is why with this type of rectification the light bulb flickers violently .
Here you can also find out exactly what to do next .
connecting the collector-emitter-path .
Calculate the resistance and select the correct value .
Even in the case of the PNP transistor depending on the polarity the paths B-E and B-C in one instance conduct the current , and in the other are blocked .
When the current flows in the same direction as shown by the diode arrow , the diode allows the current to pass through .
How high does the series resistor need to be , so that the light bulb can be operated with the permitted voltage ?
This is the voltage , from which the diode allows the current to pass through , or from which it becomes conductive .
In this way the depletion layer is reduced so that the electrons finally reach the positive terminal of the voltage source .
Up to now
You should repeat the next chapter again :
Complete the table column .
Rotating a magnet in a coil induces a . c . voltage .
Drag the diode symbols into the respective gaps in the two graphics .
Using this formula , as soon as two values are known , you can calculate the third .
resulted in four times the current intensity .
Upon pressing the OK button your answer will be recorded and evaluated in the results .
Upon attaining the Zener voltage the Z diode becomes conductive in its reverse direction .
As the polarity is constantly changing , the transistor always blocks the current when the applied voltage is negative in polarity and / or is below 0.7 volts .
The calculation looks like this :
Back :
Now observe whether the values for current intensity and voltage change as a result of reversing the polarity of the voltage source .
You have not selected the correct statement .
Therefore voltage is the product of resistance and current intensity .
If the voltage is increased for a resistance , then the current intensity increases at the same ratio
Which paths of this PNP transistor behave like a diode ?
The voltage that is generated as a result of movement between a magnetic field and an electric conductor , is referred to as self-induction .
Make your selection and confirm by clicking on OK .
You have not yet completed the table in full .
The resistance to be expected is in the kilo-ohm region .
In the following exercises you will find out how the two types of transistor differ from one another , how transistors work and what they are used for .
How big is the series resistor ?
Comparing the characteristics of these two types of switch will provide you with an overview of what differences , what advantages and disadvantages the relay and the transistor have .
Now using the voltage regulator set the voltage values one after another and enter the current intensity that has been determined into the table .
Allows you to toggle between the text version and the audio version .
Operating voltage
When the switch is closed , a flow of electrons starts .
Application for practical training
resistance in its forward direction .
small base current
A capacitor cuts off the electric circuit when it is charged .
The thyristor only blocks again when the holding current in the load circuit falls below about 20 milliamperes or the flow of current changes direction .
As soon as the maximum induced positive voltage once again falls below 0.7 volts , the transistor once again blocks the flow of current and the load circuit is broken .
A coil is connected in this circuit at the base of an NPN transistor .
The resistance is calculated according to the formula :
You have now entered all of the resistance values .
Which statements about current and voltage are correct ?
Now increase the voltage in stages up to the maximum value of 12 volts .
Recommendation :
Select the correct values and confirm by clicking on OK .
Allocate the Japanese graphical symbols to the DIN graphical symbols correctly by dragging them below the field of the respective DIN symbol .
Single-way rectification or half-wave rectification
Correct or supplement the information you have given and confirm by clicking on OK .
Now measure the base current , IB , and the collector current , IC .
In so doing you will copy the measured values to the table , as you are already used to doing from the voltage measurement .
The polarity of the a . c . voltage does not have any influence on its switching behaviour .
The stop band is the voltage range , in which the diode does not conduct current , when it is being operated in its reverse direction .
Do you really want to exit the program ?
The pass band is the voltage range , in which the diode conducts current .
information
Whereas conventional diodes in a reverse direction are destroyed when a particular voltage is exceeded , the Zener diode is conductive at the so-called breakdown voltage .
For this reason the value 0 can now be entered into all columns for the OFF switch position .
Transformer
Select the correct measurement readings and confirm your selection by clicking on OK .
The final test should provide you and your trainer with an impression of how much you have learnt about this topic .
Your task now is to determine the current intensity for specific voltage values at measuring point I1 and to enter them into the table .
Unfortunately , you have not inserted a diode symbol correctly .
As you can see , only the bulb in circuit A lights up , after you have closed the switch .
The thyristor interconnects at a voltage of 0.7 volts .
Repeat the animation
This measured voltage across the diode is referred to as the threshold voltage .
Have you entered all values ?
The Z diode works in a forward direction as an overvoltage protector .
PNP - transistor
connection that the component being controlled
In the top row you can see four DIN graphical symbols .
Please note :
In this circuit the bulb voltage is 10.3 volts and the current intensity is 0.23 amps .
You can find information about electric conductors and insulators in the
Properties of the vehicle battery :
Diode in d . c . voltage mode and in a . c . voltage mode - a comparison
a . c . voltage has the effect that the transistor is constantly switching on and off .
Insert the diode symbols into the diagram for the two types of transistor so that the circuits
to repeat the animation on enlarging the depletion layer .
What do you expect ?
In the case of this Z diode it is at 6.2 volts .
be shown in the
If you apply the red test probe to the cathode and the black one to the anode , you are operating the diode in the reverse direction .
Which components belong to what ?
As you can see from the readings that are displayed , the values for voltage and current intensity have been roughly halved .
You can switch the switch on and off several times .
One formula for all scenarios !
How high is the voltage when the switch is open and how high when the switch is closed ?
transistor the three doped parts are arranged differently .
Note
As you could see , the light bulb only illuminated for two of the six possible connections with the voltage source .
Select the correct circuit and confirm by clicking on OK .
Charging process of a vehicle battery .
n-part
How is the thyristor different from the transistor ?
Watch the animation and decide which process it is illustrating .
the load circuit must be broken with direct current .
Furthermore they are shock-proof and vibration-proof , hum-free and cannot implode .
The formula is :
You have selected the correct term .
negative or n-doping .
The charging process of a capacitor continues until the charge potential at its plates has once again equalised .
When removing the battery , the clamp must always be removed from the negative terminal first to avoid a short-circuit .
In each case a multimeter has been applied to measure the voltage and current intensity .
We would hereby like to
you can see
Here is a graphic illustration of the three types of relay .
Bookmark
Compared with light bulbs they have the advantage of consuming little energy and only
Which statements about relays are applicable ?
Three resistors are connected in parallel in this electric circuit .
The load circuit , which bulb E2 is in , is completed and bulb E2 lights up .
Bring the elPass with you to the practical training !
First of all complete the electric circuit by closing the switch .
Only the polarity is rectified .
Examine the measurement readings for voltage and current intensity for different voltage values .
measured into the table .
Here you can see the diagram of a current trend , as an oscilloscope would display it .
Controllable resistor
This graphic provides a highly simplified example of a regulator rectifier .
You have increased the voltage across the transistor sufficiently that the collector-emitter-path has become conductive and the bulb lights up .
Which statement describes the difference correctly ?
Select the correct statements and then confirm by clicking on OK .
The first finding that you could make is that the light bulb is not illuminated .
At the negative terminal of a voltage source there is a surplus of electrons .
It is also possible to determine that the current intensity increases when increasing the voltage on a resistor , and indeed at the same ratio as the voltage .
The threshold voltage is the voltage at which the diode changes from its non-conductive to its conductive state .
Conversely , the following applies :
As a result there is less of a voltage drop across the photoresistor and more voltage across the 10 kilo-ohm resistor .
Voltage is equal to resistance times current intensity , expressed in symbols as :
The charging current should be at least 25 % of the nominal capacity .
Because the switch is open , no voltage is applied to the diode .
First click on the field in the table and then on the multimeter display to copy the measuring range .
Advantages :
The transistor is now conductive , as can be identified from the light .
To do this reconnect the two terminals on the voltage source with connections on the transistor and enter your observations one after another in the table .
To be able to measure current , the electric circuit must be completed and the wire must be disconnected in the correct place , so that the measuring device is connected in series in the electric circuit .
to the positive terminal of the voltage source .
Even when switch S1 is closed , the resistance of the LDR drops down to 0.2 kilo-ohms under the influence of the light , which bulb E1 radiates .
As soon as the bar magnet rotates close to the coil , an a . c . voltage is induced .
No current can be measured while the electric circuit is not completed by the switch .
Start the measurement in the diode ' s reverse direction .
Assign the matching terms to the respective illustration .
" Help "
Please work through the outstanding content , and only then is it possible to complete this test . Please close this window by pressing " Close " .
This behaviour exhibited by the light bulb can be observed when the exercise is completed correctly .
Now measure the current at I3 and confirm by clicking on OK .
Select the correct values and confirm by clicking on OK .
You are right .
Here you can see the graphical symbols for the diode and the diagram of the diode ' s design .
it has a light bulb connected to its base terminal .
Not everything is ready for the current measurement yet .
Now everything is ready for the measurements .
You have selected incorrect and correct allocations .
A diode is connected in the forward direction after a series resistor in this circuit .
This shows that these two paths behave like a diode .
For this reason the bulb does not light up , even though the
Ohm ' s Law provides you with the formula for calculating electrical values .
Polarity of the magnet
To measure the resistance when it is bright , switch on the light .
You will learn how you can calculate individual electrical values and electrical power using these formulae .
Unlike previously , at the corresponding input voltage there is enough of a voltage drop across the bulb and it starts to light up .
Direction of movement of the conductor
That is why a resistor must also be included in each electric circuit with a diode to limit the current .
If you apply the red test probe to the anode and the black one to the cathode , it is as if you were to connect the p-part with the positive terminal and the n-part with the negative terminal of a voltage source thereby operating the diode in a forward direction .
A voltage source has a different electrical charge at its terminals .
A series resistor , R1 , of 10 kilo-ohms and a potentiometer with a maximum resistance of 470 kilo-ohms are fitted before the base connection of the transistor .
required to operate the LED correctly .
The object being measured must be disconnected from the voltage source
On your second attempt you have indeed made all of the correct allocations , as well as some incorrect diode symbols .
Confirm your allocation by clicking on OK .
Which Japanese symbol corresponds to the DIN graphical symbol ?
Positive connection
Your result is still completely incorrect .
This chapter is about Ohm ' s Law .
Instructions for completing the test
You have selected the correct value .
Using this circuit you can observe how the transistor works .
In this circuit diagram a Zener diode , abbreviated to Z diode , is connected in its forward direction after a series resistor . d . c . voltage is applied .
U is equal to R times I .
Light-dependent resistors are mainly used as luxmeters , dimmer switches and as sensors in light barriers .
You haven ' t inserted anything correctly .
If the voltage is above the diode ' s stop band , the voltage breaks down the diode and destroys it .
Now close the switch by clicking on it with your mouse and confirm by clicking on OK .
How large is the voltage when the switch is open and closed .
can see an illustration of a silicon diode .
You have not yet worked through all of the learning content .
Series resistor for an LED
Coils chapter
You have not selected a correct path .
The difference between a thyristor and a transistor
In this circuit an NPN transistor is connected , a light bulb is connected to its collector .
set up
To switch it off
Examine the table again and indicate which NPN transistor paths exhibit the characteristic of a diode .
Parallel circuit :
Current intensity :
light-dependent resistors .
Bulb current
Load page . . .
Voltage ( V )
How is the thyristor different from the transistor ?
U2 ( via R2 )
Wire length
Cross-section
Actual
Collector current / IC
Number of windings N2
More than two resistors :
Base voltage
Principles of vehicle electrics / electronics
Consuming device
Defective fuse
In each case there is an optimal measuring range for these measurements .
Polarity
North
Current in mA
The page that you are on can be printed out .
Switch ON
To understand where you are in the program , here you can see which chapter and section you are currently in .
Primary current ( A )
Find out about all of the program functions ! To do this move your mouse over the areas highlighted with a red box .
Graphical symbols :
Earth
shorter
NPN transistor
Ge diode
U2 in V
Audio box :
PNP transistor
Drag the connector to the correct socket for this measurement .
But you haven ' t yet selected all of the applicable paths .
Switching on the device
Switch position
Primary coil
Behaviour of the NPN transistor
Load circuit
The " Next " button runs straight through the program .
Design :
Time ( ms )
W as a percentage
Based upon the page display , you can see how many pages the chapter consists of and which page you are on .
You first need to switch the device on .
in a reverse direction
NPN transistor
I in A
thicker
opens this program help .
U in V
Always first of all set the rotary switch to the highest measuring range for the type of measurement .
How the thyristor works
Influence of wire material
Summary of the parallel resistors :
hum-free
Light bulb illuminated ?
Repeat :
U 1 ( via R1 )
Rotate the switch to the correct position .
Power P in W
By clicking on " Back " you jump back to the last page you visited .
Summary of the series resistors :
The spoken audio text is displayed in this window .
You have selected all of the correct paths .
Resistance in ohms
Formulae
Circuit with four diodes - a new comparison
The information you have given is correct !
Free electron
Secondary coil
A check mark shows you that you have already worked through the section .
Connecting the test cable
Secondary electric circuit
Behaviour of the PNP transistor
Series circuit :
Now apply the test probes to the wires .
Setting the measurement type :
Path :
Next :
South
Influence of wire cross-section A
Input voltage
Dark
The information you have given is still incorrect .
Bulb voltage
U as a percent
longer
Circuit
I 1 ( before R1 )
Menu
Page number :
U1 ( via R1 )
Principle of the galvanic cell
Voltage U
Current intensity in mA
Series circuit :
Directly access individual chapters and sections .
Resistance value
U1 in V
d . c . voltage
Current in amps
Voltage in volts
Total current :
Table
Connection B
Please note that when printing you should set the printer to landscape !
Switch OFF
Best measuring range
You have made all of the correct allocations , as well as some incorrect diode symbols .
Threshold voltage
Control circuit
Copper
larger
Temp
Influence of wire length L
Measuring range
Number of windings N1
Parallel circuit :
Voltage in V
Semiconductors :
Connection A
Base current / IB
Continue
PNP transistor
Repeat :
Flow of electrons
Si diode
Silver
Pass band
Measurement reading in ohms
thinner
greater than 0 amps
Angle of rotation of the rotor
d . c . generator
Current intensity :
smaller
Light
By clicking on repeat you can reload the page .
I Total
a . c . voltage
Resistance :
Closing the switch
in a forward direction
I 1 ( after R1 )
